<!-- lastmod 2026-02-11 -->
<!-- image -->

## FEATURES

- n Dropout Voltage: 0.6V at I OUT  = 3A

- n Output Current: 3A

- n Quiescent Current: 50µA

- n No Protection Diodes Needed

- n Adjustable Output from 3.8V to 14V

- n 3.3V and 5V Fixed Output Voltages

- n Controlled Quiescent Current in Dropout

- n Shutdown I Q  = 16µA

- n Stable with 22µF Output Capacitor

- n Reverse Battery Protection

- n No Reverse Current

- n Thermal Limiting

## APPLICATIONS

- n High Efficiency Regulator
- n Regulator for Battery-Powered Systems
- n Post Regulator for Switching Supplies
- n 5V to 3.3V Logic Regulator

Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

## TYPICAL APPLICATION

<!-- image -->

| V SHDN (PIN 4)   | OUTPUT    |
|------------------|-----------|
| < 0.25 >2.8 NC   | OFF ON ON |

## 3A Low Dropout Regulators with Micropower Quiescent Current and Shutdown

## DESCRIPTION

The LT®1529/LT1529-3.3/LT1529-5 are 3A low dropout regulators with micropower quiescent current and shutdown. The devices are capable of supplying 3A of output current with a dropout voltage of 0.6V . Designed for use in battery-powered systems, the low quiescent current, 50µA operating and 16µA in shutdown, make them an ideal choice. The quiescent current is well controlled; it does not rise in dropout as it does with many other low dropout PNP regulators.

Other  features  of  the  L T1529  /L T1529-3.3/L T1529-5  include the  ability  to  operate  with  small  output  capacitors.  They  are stable with 22µF on the output while most older devices require up to 100µF for stability. Small ceramic capacitors can be used, enhancing manufacturabiltiy. Also the input may be connected to voltages lower than the output voltage, including negative voltages, without reverse current flow from output to input. This makes the LT1529/ LT1529-3.3/LT1529-5 ideal for backup power situations where the output is held high and the input is at ground or reversed. Under these conditions, only 16µA will flow from the OUTPUT pin to ground. The devices are available in 5-lead TO-220 and 5-lead DD packages.

<!-- image -->

## ABSOLUTE MAXIMUM RATINGS (Note 1)

| Input Voltage.......................................................   | ±15V*       |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| OUTPUT Pin Reverse Current ..............................              | 10mA        |
| SENSE Pin Current ...............................................      | 10mA        |
| ADJ Pin Current ...................................................    | 10mA        |
| SHDN Pin Input Voltage (Note 2) ................                       | 6.5V, -0.6V |
| SHDN Pin Input Current (Note 2) ...........................            | 5mA         |

Output Short-Circuit Duration   .......................  Indefinite

Storage Temperature Range ..................- 65°C to 150°C

Operating Junction Temperature Range

Commercial ..........................................  0°C to 125°C

Industrial .......................................... - 45°C to 125°C

Lead Temperature (Soldering, 10 sec)  ................... 300°C

*For applications requiring input voltage ratings greater than 15V , contact the factory.

## ORDER PART NUMBER

LT1529CT

LT1529CT-3.3

LT1529CT-5

LT1529IT

LT1529IT-3.3

LT1529IT-5

## PACKAGE/ORDER INFORMATION

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

## ORDER PART NUMBER

LT1529CQ

LT1529CQ-3.3

LT1529CQ-5

LT1529IQ

LT1529IQ-3.3

LT1529IQ-5

Consult LTC Marketing for parts specified with wider operating temperature ranges.

## ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS

The l denotes specifications which apply over the operating temperature range, otherwise specifications are at T A  = 25°C. (Note 3)

| PARAMETER                         | CONDITIONS                                |                                                                                |    | MIN         | TYP         | MAX         | UNITS   |
|-----------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----|-------------|-------------|-------------|---------|
| Regulated Output Voltage (Note 4) | LT1529-3.3                                | V IN = 3.8V , I OUT = 1mA, T J = 25°C 4.3V < V IN < 15V , 1mA < I OUT < 3A     | l  | 3.250 3.200 | 3.300 3.300 | 3.350 3.400 | V V     |
|                                   | LT1529-5                                  | V IN = 5.5V , I OUT = 1mA, T J = 25°C 6V < V IN < 15V , 1mA < I OUT < 3A       | l  | 4.925 4.850 | 5.000 5.000 | 5.075 5.150 | V V     |
|                                   | LT1529 (Note 5)                           | V IN = 4.3V , I OUT = 1mA, T J = 25°C 4.8V < V IN < 15V , 1mA < I OUT < 3A     | l  | 3.695 3.640 | 3.750 3.750 | 3.805 3.860 | V V     |
| Line Regulation                   | LT1529-3.3                                | ∆V IN = 3.8V to 15V , I OUT = 1mA                                              | l  |             | 1.5         | 10          | mV      |
|                                   | LT1529-5                                  | ∆V IN = 5.5V to 15V , I OUT = 1mA                                              | l  |             | 1.5         | 10          | mV      |
|                                   | LT1529 (Note 5)                           | ∆V IN = 4.3V to 15V , I OUT = 1mA                                              | l  |             | 1.5         | 10          | mV      |
| Load Regulation                   | LT1529-3.3                                | ∆I LOAD = 1mA to 3A, V IN = 4.3V , T J = 25°C ∆I LOAD = 1mA to 3A, V IN = 4.3V | l  |             | 5 12        | 20 30       | mV mV   |
|                                   | LT1529-5                                  | ∆I LOAD = 1mA to 3A, V IN = 6V , T J = 25°C ∆I LOAD = 1mA to 3A, V IN = 6V     | l  |             | 5 12        | 20 30       | mV mV   |
|                                   | LT1529 (Note 5)                           | ∆I LOAD = 1mA to 3A, V IN = 4.8V , T J = 25°C ∆I LOAD = 1mA to 3A, V IN = 4.8V | l  |             | 5 12        | 20 30       | mV mV   |
| Dropout Voltage (Note 6)          | I LOAD = 10mA, T J = 25°C I LOAD = 10mA   | I LOAD = 10mA, T J = 25°C I LOAD = 10mA                                        | l  |             | 110         | 180 250     | mV mV   |
|                                   | I LOAD = 100mA, T J = 25°C I LOAD = 100mA | I LOAD = 100mA, T J = 25°C I LOAD = 100mA                                      | l  |             | 200         | 300 400     | mV mV   |

Rev. C

## ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS

The l denotes specifications which apply over the operating temperature range, otherwise specifications are at T A  = 25°C. (Note 3)

| PARAMETER                               | CONDITIONS                                                                                                   |     | MIN   | TYP       | MAX     | UNITS    |
|-----------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----|-------|-----------|---------|----------|
| Dropout Voltage (Note 6)                | I LOAD = 700mA, T J = 25°C I LOAD = 700mA                                                                    | l   |       | 320       | 430 550 | mV mV    |
| Dropout Voltage (Note 6)                | I LOAD = 1.5A, T J = 25°C I LOAD = 1.5A                                                                      | l   |       | 430       | 550 700 | mV mV    |
| Dropout Voltage (Note 6)                | I LOAD = 3A, T J = 25°C I LOAD = 3A                                                                          | l   |       | 600       | 750 950 | mV mV    |
| GND Pin Current (Note 7)                | I LOAD = 0mA, T J = 25°C I LOAD = 0mA, T J = 125°C (Note 8)                                                  |     |       | 50 400    | 100     | µA µA    |
| GND Pin Current (Note 7)                | I LOAD = 100mA, T J = 25°C I LOAD = 100mA, T J = 125°C (Note 8)                                              |     |       | 0.6 1.0   | 1.0     | mA mA    |
| GND Pin Current (Note 7)                | I LOAD = 700mA                                                                                               | l   |       | 5.5       | 12      | mA       |
| GND Pin Current (Note 7)                | I LOAD = 1.5A                                                                                                | l   |       | 20        | 40      | mA       |
| GND Pin Current (Note 7)                | I LOAD = 3A                                                                                                  | l   |       | 80        | 160     | mA       |
| ADJ Pin Bias Current (Notes 5, 9)       | T J = 25°C                                                                                                   |     |       | 150       | 300     | nA       |
| Shutdown Threshold                      | V OUT = Off to On V OUT = On to Off                                                                          | l l | 0.25  | 1.20 0.75 | 2.8     | V V      |
| SHDN Pin Current (Note 10)              | V SHDN = 0V                                                                                                  | l   |       | 4.5       | 10      | µA       |
| Quiescent Current in Shutdown (Note 11) | V IN = V OUT (Nominal) + 1V , V SHDN = 0V                                                                    | l   |       | 15        | 30      | µA       |
| Ripple Rejection                        | V IN - V OUT = 1V (Avg), V RIPPLE = 0.5V P-P , f RIPPLE = 120Hz, I LOAD = 1.5A                               |     | 50    | 62        |         | dB       |
| Current Limit                           | V IN - V OUT = 7V , T J = 25°C V IN = V OUT (Nominal) + 1.5V , ∆V OUT = -0.1V                                | l   | 3.2   | 5 4.7     |         | A A      |
| Input Reverse Leakage Current           | V IN = -15V , V OUT = 0V                                                                                     | l   |       |           | 1.0     | mA       |
| Reverse Output Current (Note 12)        | LT1529-3.3 V OUT = 3.3V , V IN = 0V LT1529-5 V OUT = 5V , V IN = 0V LT1529 (Note 6) V OUT = 3.8V , V IN = 0V |     |       | 16 16 16  |         | µA µA µA |

Note 1: Absolute Maximum Ratings are those values beyond which the life of a device may be impaired.

Note 2: The SHDN pin input voltage rating is required for a low impedance source. Internal protection devices connected to the SHDN pin will turn on and clamp the pin to approximately 7V or -0.6V . This range allows the use of 5V logic devices to drive the pin directly. For high impedance sources or logic running on supply voltages greater than 5.5V , the maximum current driven into the SHDN pin must be limited to less than 5mA.

Note 3: The device is tested under pulse load conditions such that T J  = T A .

Note 4: Operating conditions are limited by maximum junction temperature. The regulated output voltage specification will not apply for all possible combinations of input voltage and output current. When operating at maximum input voltage, the output current range must be limited. When operating at maximum output current the input voltage range must be limited.

Note 5: The LT1529 is tested and specified with the ADJ pin connected to the OUTPUT pin.

Note 6: Dropout voltage is the minimum input/output voltage required to maintain regulation at the specified output current. In dropout the output voltage will be equal to (V IN - V DROPOUT ).

Note 7: GND pin current is tested with V IN  = V OUT  (nominal) and a current source load. This means that the device is tested while operating in its dropout region. This is the worst-case GND pin current. The GND pin current will decrease slightly at higher input voltages.

Note 8: GND pin current will rise at T J  &gt; 75°C. This is due to internal circuitry designed to compensate for leakage currents in the output transistor at high temperatures. This allows quiescent current to be minimized at lower temperatures, yet maintain output regulation at high temperatures with light loads. See quiescent current curve in typical performance characteristics.

Note 9: ADJ pin bias current flows into the ADJ pin.

Note 10: SHDN pin current at V SHDN = 0V flows out of the SHDN pin.

Note 11: Quiescent current in shutdown is equal to the sum total of the SHDN pin current (5µA) and the GND pin current (10µA).

Note 12: Reverse output current is tested with the V IN  pin grounded and the OUTPUT pin forced to the rated output voltage. This current flows into the OUTPUT pin and out of the GND pin.

<!-- image -->

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS

<!-- image -->

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS

<!-- image -->

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

Reverse Output Current

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

LT1529 • G20

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

Current Limit

<!-- image -->

Current Limit

<!-- image -->

Ripple Rejection

<!-- image -->

Rev. C

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS

<!-- image -->

## PIN FUNCTIONS

OUTPUT (Pin 1): OUTPUT Pin. The OUTPUT pin supplies power to the load. A minimum output capacitor of 22µF is required to prevent oscillations. Larger values will be required  to  optimize  transient  response  for  large  load current deltas. See the Applications Information section for further information on output capacitance and reverse output characteristics.

SENSE (Pin 2): SENSE Pin. For fixed voltage versions of the LT1529 (LT1529-3.3, LT1529-5) the SENSE pin is the input to the error amplifier . Optimum regulation will be obtained at the point where the SENSE pin is connected to the output pin. For most applications the SENSE pin is connected directly to the OUTPUT pin at the regulator . In critical applications small voltage drops caused by the resistance (R P ) of PC traces between the regulator and the load, which would normally degrade regulation, may be eliminated by  connecting  the  SENSE  pin  to  the  OUTPUT  pin at  the  load  as  shown  in  Figure  1  (Kelvin  Sense  Connection). Note that the voltage drop across the external PC traces will add to the dropout voltage of the regulator . The SENSE pin bias current is 15µA at the nominal regulated output voltage. This pin is internally clamped to -0.6V (one V BE ).

ADJ (Pin 2): Adjust Pin. For the L T1529 (adjustable version) the ADJ pin is the input to the error amplifier . This

Figure 1. Kelvin Sense Connection

<!-- image -->

pin is internally clamped to 6V and -0.6V (one V BE ). This pin  has  a  bias  current  of  150nA  which  flows  into  the pin. See Bias Current curve in the Typical Performance Characteristics. The ADJ pin reference voltage is equal to 3.75V referenced to ground.

SHDN (Pin 4): Shutdown Pin. This pin is used to put the device into  shutdown.  In  shutdown  the  output  of  the  device is turned off. This pin is active low. The device will be shut down if the SHDN pin is actively pulled low. The SHDN pin current  with  the  pin  pulled  to  ground  will  be  6µA.  The SHDN pin is internally clamped to 7V and -0.6V (one V BE ). This allows the SHDN pin to be driven directly by 5V logic or by open-collector logic with a pull-up resistor .  The pull-up resistor is only required to supply the leakage current of the open-collector gate, normally several microamperes. Pull-up current must be limited to a maximum of 5mA.

## PIN FUNCTIONS

A curve of SHDN pin input current as a function of voltage appears in the Typical Performance Characteristics. If the SHDN pin is not used it can be left open circuit. The device will be active, output on, if the SHDN pin is not connected.

VIN  (Pin 5): Input Pin. Power is supplied to the device through the VIN  pin. The V IN  pin should be bypassed to ground if the device is more than six inches away from the main input filter capacitor . In general, the output impedance of a battery rises with frequency so it is advisable to

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

The LT1529 is a 3A low dropout regulator with micropower quiescent current  and  shutdown  capable  of  supplying  3A  of output current  at  a  dropout  voltage  of  0.6V .  The  device  operates with very low quiescent current (50µA). In shutdown the quiescent current drops to only 16µA. In addition to the low quiescent current the L T1529 incorporates several protection features which make it ideal for use in batterypowered systems. The device is protected against reverse input voltages. In battery backup applications where the output can be held up by a backup battery when the input is pulled to ground, the L T1529 acts like it has a diode in series with its output and prevents reverse current flow.

## Adjustable Operation

The adjustable version of the L T1529 has an output voltage range of 3.75V to 14V . The output voltage is set by the ratio of two external resistors as shown in Figure 2. The  device  servos  the  output  voltage  to  maintain  the voltage at the ADJ pin at 3.75V . The current in R1 is then equal to 3.75V/R1. The current in R2 is equal to the sum of the current in R1 and the ADJ pin bias current. The ADJ pin bias current, 150nA at 25°C, flows through R2 into the ADJ pin. The output voltage can be calculated according to the formula in Figure 2. The value of R1 should be less than 400k to minimize errors in the output voltage caused by the ADJ pin bias current. Note that in shutdown the output is turned off and the divider current will be zero. Curves of ADJ Pin Voltage vs Temperature and ADJ Pin Bias Current vs Temperature appear in the include a bypass capacitor in battery-powered circuits. A bypass capacitor in the range of 1µF to 10µF is sufficient. The LT1529 is designed to withstand reverse voltages on the V IN  pin with respect to ground and OUTPUT pin. In the case of a reversed input, which can happen if a battery is plugged in backwards, the LT1529 will act as if there is a diode in series with its input. There will be no reverse current flow into the L T1529 and no reverse voltage will appear at the load. The device will protect both itself and the load.

Figure 2.  Adjustable Operation

<!-- image -->

Typical  Performance  Characteristics.  The  reference  voltage at the ADJ pin has a positive temperature coefficient of approximately 15ppm/°C. The ADJ pin bias current has a negative temperature coefficient. These effects will tend to cancel each other .

The adjustable device is specified with the ADJ pin tied to the OUTPUT pin. This sets the output voltage to 3.75V . Specifications for output voltage greater than 3.75V will be proportional to the ratio of the desired output voltage to 3.75V (V OUT /3.75V). For example: load regulation for an output current change of 1mA to 3A is -0.5mV typical at V OUT = 3.75V . At V OUT  = 12V , load regulation would be:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## Thermal Considerations

The power handling capability of the device will be limited by the maximum rated junction temperature (125°C). The power dissipated by the device will be made up of two components:

1. Output current multiplied by the input/output voltage differential: I OUT  · (V IN - V OUT ), and
2. Ground  pin  current  multiplied  by  the  input  voltage: I GND  · V IN .

The GND pin current can be found by examining the GND Pin Current curves in the Typical Performance Characteristics. Power dissipation will be equal to the sum of the two components listed above.

The LT1529 series regulators have internal  thermal  limiting designed to protect the device during overload conditions. For  continuous  normal  load  conditions  the  maximum  junction temperature rating of 125°C must not be exceeded. It is important to give careful consideration to all sources of thermal resistance from junction to ambient. Additional heat sources mounted nearby must also be considered.

For surface mount devices heat sinking is accomplished by using the heat spreading capabilities of the PC board and its copper traces. Experiments have shown that the heat spreading copper layer does not need to be electrically connected to the tab of the device. The PC material can be very effective at transmitting heat between the pad area, attached to the tab of the device, and a ground or power plane layer either inside or on the opposite side of the board. Although the actual thermal resistance of the PC material is high, the length/area ratio of the thermal resistor between layers is small. Copper board stiffeners and plated through-holes can also be used to spread the heat generated by power devices.

The  following  tables  list  thermal  resistances  for  each package. For the TO-220 package, thermal resistance is given for junction-to-case only since this package is usually mounted to a heat sink. Measured values of thermal resistance for several different copper areas are listed for the DD package. All measurements were taken in still air on 3/32' FR-4 board with 1-oz copper . This data can be used as a  rough  guideline  in  estimating  thermal  resistance.

The thermal resistance for each application will be affected by thermal interactions with other components as well as board size and shape. Some experimentation will be necessary to determine the actual value.

Table 1. Q Package, 5-Lead DD

| COPPER AREA   | COPPER AREA   |            | THERMAL RESISTANCE (JUNCTION-TO-AMBIENT)   |
|---------------|---------------|------------|--------------------------------------------|
| TOPSIDE*      | BACKSIDE      | BOARD AREA |                                            |
| 2500 sq.mm    | 2500 sq.mm    | 2500 sq.mm | 23°C/W                                     |
| 1000 sq.mm    | 2500 sq.mm    | 2500 sq.mm | 25°C/W                                     |
| 125 sq.mm     | 2500 sq.mm    | 2500 sq.mm | 33°C/W                                     |

T Package, 5-Lead TO-220

Thermal Resistance (Junction-to-Case) = 2.5°C/W

## Calculating Junction Temperature

Example: Given an output voltage of 3.3V , an input voltage range of 4.5V to 5.5V , an output current range of 0mA to 500mA, and a maximum ambient temperature of 50°C, what will the maximum junction temperature be?

The power dissipated by the device will be equal to:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

If  we use a DD package, then the thermal resistance will be in the range of 23°C/W to 33°C/W depending on copper area. So the junction temperature rise above ambient will be approximately equal to:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The maximum junction temperature will then be equal to the maximum junction temperature rise above ambient plus the maximum ambient temperature or:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

## Output Capacitance and T ransient Performance

The LT1529 is designed to be stable with a wide range of output capacitors. The minimum recommended value is  22µF with an ESR of 0.2Ω or less. The LT1529 is a

Rev. C

<!-- image -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

micropower device and output transient response will be a function  of  output  capacitance.  See  the  T ransient  Response curves in the Typical Performance Characteristics. Larger values of output capacitance will decrease the peak deviations and provide improved output transient response for larger load current deltas. Bypass capacitors, used to decouple individual components powered by the LT1529, will increase the effective value of the output capacitor .

## Protection Features

The  LT1529  incorporates  several  protection  features which make it ideal for use in battery-powered circuits. In addition to the normal protection features associated with monolithic regulators, such as current limiting and thermal limiting, the device is protected against reverse input voltages, and reverse voltages from output to input.

Current limit protection and thermal overload protection are intended to protect the device against current overload conditions at the output of the device. For normal operation, the junction temperature should not exceed 125°C.

The input of the device will withstand reverse voltages of 15V . Current flow into the device will be limited to less than  1mA  (typically  less  than  100µA)  and  no  negative voltage will appear at the output. The device will protect both itself and the load. This provides protection against batteries that can be plugged in backwards.

For fixed voltage versions of the device, the SENSE pin is internally clamped to one diode drop below ground. For the adjustable version of the device, the OUTPUT pin is internally clamped at one diode drop below ground. If the

Table 2. Fault Conditions

| V IN PIN          | SHDN PIN    | OUTPUT/SENSE PINS         |                                                                                  |
|-------------------|-------------|---------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <V OUT (Nominal)  | Open (High) | Forced to V OUT (Nominal) | Reverse Output Current ≈ 15µA (See Figure 3), Input Current ≈ 1µA (See Figure 4) |
| <V OUT (Nominal)  | Grounded    | Forced to V OUT (Nominal) | Reverse Output Current ≈ 15µA (See Figure 3), Input Current ≈ 1µA (See Figure 4) |
| Open              | Open (High) | > 1V                      | Reverse Output Current ≈ 15µA Peak (See Figure 3)                                |
| Open              | Grounded    | > 1V                      | Reverse Output Current ≈ 15µA (See Figure 3)                                     |
| ≤0.8V             | Open (High) | ≤0V                       | Output Current = 0                                                               |
| ≤0.8V             | Grounded    | ≤0V                       | Output Current = 0                                                               |
| >1.5V             | Open (High) | ≤0V                       | Output Current = Short-Circuit Current                                           |
| -15V < V IN < 15V | Grounded    | ≤0V                       | Output Current = 0                                                               |

OUTPUT pin of an adjustable device, or the SENSE pin of a fixed voltage device, is pulled below ground, with the input open or grounded, current must be limited to less than 5mA.

In  circuits  where  a  backup  battery  is  required,  several different input/output conditions can occur . The output voltage may be held up while the input is either pulled to ground, pulled to some intermediate voltage, or is left open circuit. Current flow back into the output will vary depending on the conditions. Many battery-powered circuits incorporate some form of power management. The following information will  help  optimize  battery  life.  Table  2 summarizes the following information.

The reverse output current will follow the curve in Figure 3 when the input is pulled to ground. This current flows through the device to ground. The state of the SHDN pin will have no effect on output current when the V IN  pin is pulled to ground.

Figure 3. Reverse Output Current

<!-- image -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

In  some applications it may be necessary to leave the input to the L T1529 unconnected when the output is held high. This can happen when the LT1529 is powered from a  rectified AC source. If the AC source is removed, then the  input  of  the  L T1529  is  effectively  left  floating.  The reverse output current also follows the curve in Figure 3 if the V IN pin is left open. The state of the SHDN pin will have no effect on the reverse output current when the V IN pin is floating.

When the input of the LT1529 is forced to a voltage below its nominal output voltage and its output is held high, the output current will follow the curve shown in Figure 3. This can happen if the input of the L T1529 is connected to a discharged (low voltage) battery and the output is held up by either a backup battery or by a second regulator circuit. When the V IN  pin is forced below the OUTPUT pin or the OUTPUT pin is pulled above the V IN  pin, the input current will typically drop to less than 2µA (see Figure 4). The state of the SHDN pin  will  have  no  effect  on  the  reverse output current when the output is pulled above the input.

Figure 4. Input Current

<!-- image -->

## PACKAGE DESCRIPTION

<!-- image -->

## Q Package

5-Lead Plastic DD Pak

(Reference LTC DWG # 05-08-1461 Rev F)

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

RECOMMENDED SOLDER PAD LAYOUT NOTE:

1. DIMENSIONS IN INCH/(MILLIMETER)

2. DRAWING NOT TO SCALE

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

## PACKAGE DESCRIPTION

## 5-Lead Plastic TO-220 (Standard)

<!-- image -->

T Package (LTC DWG # 05-08-1421)

<!-- image -->

## REVISION HISTORY

| REV   | DATE   | DESCRIPTION                                       | PAGE NUMBER   |
|-------|--------|---------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| C     | 02/26  | Updated the datasheet to Analog datasheet format. | 1-15          |
|       |        | Updated Package Description.                      | 12            |
|       |        | Updated Related Parts table.                      | 15            |

## RELATED PARTS

| PART NUMBER   | DESCRIPTION                                     | COMMENTS                                  |
|---------------|-------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|
| LT1120A       | 125mA Low Dropout Regulator with 20µA I Q       | Includes 2.5V Reference and Comparator    |
| LTC ® 1174    | High Efficiency 425mA Step-Down DC/DC Converter | Over 90% Efficiency, Includes Comparator  |
| LT1303        | Micropower Step-Up DC/DC Converter              | Includes Comparator, Good for EL Displays |
| LT1376        | 500kHz 1.25A Step-Down DC/DC Converter          | Uses Extremely Small External Components  |
| LT1521        | 300µA Low Dropout Regulator with 15µA I Q       | Lowest I Q Low Dropout Regulator          |

<!-- image -->

For more information www.analog.com