<!-- lastmod 2026-04-24 -->
<!-- image -->

## FEATURES

- n Very Low Power: I CC  = 110µA Typ
- n Designed for RS485 or RS422 Applications
- n Single 5V Supply
- n -7V to +12V Bus Common Mode Range Permits ±7V GND Difference Between Devices on the Bus
- n Thermal Shutdown Protection
- n Power-Up/Down Glitch-Free Driver Outputs Permit Live Insertion/Removal of Package
- n Driver Maintains High Impedance in Three-State or with the Power Off
- n 28ns Typical Driver Propagation Delays with 5ns Skew
- n Pin Compatible with the SN75174, DS96174, µA96174, and DS96F174

## APPLICATIONS

- n Low Power RS485/RS422 Drivers
- n Level Translator

## TYPICAL APPLICATION

## Quad Low Power RS485 Driver

## DESCRIPTION

The LTC ® 487 is a low power differential bus/line driver designed for  multipoint  data  transmission  standard  RS485 applications with extended common mode range -7V to +12V . It also meets RS422 requirements.

The CMOS design offers significant power savings over its  bipolar  counterpart  without  sacrificing  ruggedness against overload or ESD damage.

The driver features three-state outputs, with the driver outputs maintaining high impedance over the entire common mode range. Excessive power dissipation caused by  bus  contention  or  faults  is  prevented  by  a  thermal shutdown circuit which forces the driver outputs into a high impedance state.

Both AC and DC specifications are guaranteed from 0°C to 70°C (Commercial), -40°C to +85°C (Industrial) and over the 4.75V to 5.25V supply voltage range.

All registered trademarks and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

## RS485 Cable Length Specification*

<!-- image -->

LTC487 TA01

<!-- image -->

LTC487 TA09

*  APPLIES FOR 24 GAUGE, POLYETHYLENE DIELECTRIC TWISTED PAIR

## ABSOLUTE MAXIMUM RATINGS

## (Note 1)

| Supply Voltage (V CC ) ................................................12V              |                                                           |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| Control Input Voltages                                                                  | ..................-0.5V to (V CC + 0.5V)                  |
| Driver Input Voltages                                                                   | ....................-0.5V to (V CC + 0.5V)                |
| Driver Output Voltages............................................                      | ±14V                                                      |
| Control Input Currents                                                                  | .........................................±25mA            |
| Driver Input Currents                                                                   | ...........................................±25mA          |
| Operating Temperature Range Commercial .............................................0°C | to 70°C                                                   |
| Industrial                                                                              | ...........................................-40°C to +85°C |
| Storage Temperature Range                                                               | ................ -65°C to +150°C                          |
| Lead Temperature (Soldering, 10                                                         | sec.)..................300°C                              |

## ORDER INFORMATION

| LEAD FREE FINISH   | TAPE AND REEL   | PART MARKING   | PACKAGE DESCRIPTION   | TEMPERATURE RANGE   |
|--------------------|-----------------|----------------|-----------------------|---------------------|
| LTC487CN#PBF       | LTC487CN#TRPBF  | LTC487CN       | 16-Lead Plastic DIP   | 0°C to 70°C         |
| LTC487CSW#PBF      | LTC487CSW#TRPBF | LTC487CSW      | 16-Lead Plastic SO    | 0°C to 70°C         |
| LTC487IN#PBF       | LTC487IN#TRPBF  | LTC487IN       | 16-Lead Plastic DIP   | -40°C to +85°C      |
| LTC487ISW#PBF      | LTC487ISW#TRPBF | LTC487ISW      | 16-Lead Plastic SO    | -40°C to +85°C      |

Consult LTC Marketing for parts specified with wider operating temperature ranges.

Consult LTC Marketing for information on non-standard lead based finish parts.

For more information on lead free part marking, go to: http://www.linear .com/leadfree/ For more information on tape and reel specifications, go to: http://www.linear .com/tapeandreel/

## PIN CONFIGURATION

Consult factory for Military grade parts.

<!-- image -->

## DC ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS VCC  = 5V ±5%, 0°C ≤ T A  ≤ 70°C (Commercial), -40°C ≤ T A  ≤ 85°C

(Industrial) (Notes 2, 3)

| SYMBOL   | PARAMETER                                                                                 | CONDITIONS                      | CONDITIONS                      | MIN   | TYP   | MAX   | UNITS   |
|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|---------------------------------|-------|-------|-------|---------|
| V OD1    | Differential Driver Output Voltage (Unloaded)                                             | I O = 0                         | I O = 0                         |       |       | 5     | V       |
| V OD2    | Differential Driver Output Voltage (With Load)                                            | R = 50 Ω ; (RS422)              | R = 50 Ω ; (RS422)              | 2     |       |       | V       |
|          |                                                                                           | R = 27 Ω ; (RS485) (Figure 3)   | R = 27 Ω ; (RS485) (Figure 3)   | 1.5   |       | 5     | V       |
| V OD     | Change in Magnitude of Driver Differential Output Voltage for Complementary Output States | R = 27 Ω or R = 50 Ω (Figure 3) | R = 27 Ω or R = 50 Ω (Figure 3) |       |       | 0.2   | V       |
| V OC     | Driver Common Mode Output Voltage                                                         |                                 |                                 |       |       | 3     | V       |
|  V OC  | Change in Magnitude of Driver Common Mode Output Voltage for Complementary Output States  |                                 |                                 |       |       | 0.2   | V       |
| V IH     | Input High Voltage                                                                        | DI, EN12, EN34                  | DI, EN12, EN34                  | 2.0   |       |       | V       |
| V IL     | Input Low Voltage                                                                         |                                 |                                 |       |       | 0.8   | V       |
| I IN1    | Input Current                                                                             |                                 |                                 |       |       | ±2    | µA      |
| I CC     | Supply Current                                                                            | No Load                         | Output Enabled                  |       | 110   | 200   | µA      |
| I OSD1   | Driver Short-Circuit Current, V OUT = High                                                | V O = -7V                       | V O = -7V                       |       | 100   | 250   | mA      |
| I OSD2   | Driver Short-Circuit Current, V OUT = Low                                                 | V O = 12V                       | V O = 12V                       |       | 100   | 250   | mA      |
| I OZ     | High Impedance State Output Current                                                       | V O = -7V to 12V                | V O = -7V to 12V                |       | ±10   | ±200  | µA      |

SWITCHING CHARACTERISTICS VCC  = 5V ± 5%, 0 ° C ≤ T A ≤ 70 ° C (Notes 2, 3)

Note 1: Stresses beyond those listed under Absolute Maximum Ratings may cause permanent damage to the device. Exposure to any Absolute Maximum Rating condition for extended periods may affect device reliability and lifetime.

| SYMBOL    | PARAMETER                     | CONDITIONS                           | MIN   |   TYP |   MAX | UNITS   |
|-----------|-------------------------------|--------------------------------------|-------|-------|-------|---------|
| t PLH     | Driver Input to Output        | R DIFF = 54 Ω, C L1 = C L2 = 100pF   | 10    |    30 |    50 | ns      |
| t PHL     | Driver Input to Output        | (Figures 1, 4)                       | 10    |    30 |    50 | ns      |
| t SKEW    | Driver Output to Output       |                                      |       |     5 |    15 | ns      |
| t r , t f | Driver Rise or Fall Time      |                                      | 5     |    20 |    25 | ns      |
| t ZH      | Driver Enable to Output High  | C L = 100pF (Figures 2, 5) S2 Closed |       |    35 |    70 | ns      |
| t ZL      | Driver Enable to Output Low   | C L = 100pF (Figures 2, 5) S1 Closed |       |    35 |    70 | ns      |
| t LZ      | Driver Disable Time from Low  | C L = 15pF (Figures 2, 5) S1 Closed  |       |    35 |    70 | ns      |
| t HZ      | Driver Disable Time from High | C L = 15pF (Figures 2, 5) S2 Closed  |       |    35 |    70 | ns      |

Note 2: All currents into device pins are positive; all currents out of device pins are negative. All voltages are referenced to device GND unless otherwise specified.

Note 3: All typicals are given for V CC  = 5V and Temperature = 25°C.

<!-- image -->

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS

Driver Output High Voltage vs Output Current

<!-- image -->

TTL Input Threshold vs Temperature

<!-- image -->

Driver Differential Output Voltage vs Output Current

<!-- image -->

Driver Skew vs Temperature

<!-- image -->

Driver Differential Output Voltage vs Temperature

<!-- image -->

Driver Output Low Voltage vs Output Current

<!-- image -->

Supply Current vs Temperature

<!-- image -->

## PIN FUNCTIONS

DI1 (Pin 1): Driver 1 Input. If Driver 1 is enabled, then a low on DI1 forces the driver outputs DO1A low and DO1B high. A high on DI1 with the driver outputs enabled will force DO1A high and DO1B low.

DO1A (Pin 2):

DO1B (Pin 3):

Driver 1 Output.

Driver 1 Output.

EN12 (Pin 4): Driver 1 and 2 Outputs Enabled. See Function Table for details.

DO2B (Pin 5):

Driver 2 Output.

DO2A (Pin 6): Driver 2 Output.

DI2 (Pin 7): Driver 2 Input. Refer to DI1.

## FUNCTION TABLE

| INPUT   | ENABLES      | OUTPUTS   | OUTPUTS   |
|---------|--------------|-----------|-----------|
| DI      | EN12 or EN34 | OUT A     | OUT B     |
| H       | H            | H         | L         |
| L       | H            | L         | H         |
| X       | L            | Z         | Z         |

## SWITCHING TIME WAVEFORMS

Figure 1. Driver Propagation Delays

<!-- image -->

Figure 2. Driver Enable and Disable Times

<!-- image -->

GND (Pin 8): GND Connection.

DI3 (Pin 9):

Driver 3 Input. Refer to DI1.

DO3A (Pin 10): Driver 3 Output.

DO3B (Pin 11): Driver 3 Output.

EN34 (Pin 12): Driver 3 and 4  Outputs Enabled. See Func- tion Table for details.

DO4B (Pin 13): Driver 4 Output.

DO4A (Pin 14): Driver 4 Output.

DI4 (Pin 15): Driver 4 Input. Refer to DI1.

VCC  (Pin 16): Positive Supply; 4.75 &lt; V CC  &lt; 5.25.

H: High Level

L: Low Level

X: Irrelevant

Z: High Impedance (Off)

LTC487 • TA05

Rev. D

## TEST CIRCUIT

<!-- image -->

Figure 3. Driver DC Test Load

Figure 4. Driver Timing Test Circuit

<!-- image -->

Figure 5. Driver Timing Test Load #2

<!-- image -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## Typical Application

A typical connection of the L TC487 is shown in Figure 6. A  twisted  pair  of  wires  connect  up  to  32  drivers  and receivers  for  half  duplex  data  transmission.  There  are no restrictions on where the chips are connected to the wires, and it isn't necessary to have the chips connected at the ends. However , the wires must be terminated only at the ends with a resistor equal to their characteristic impedance, typically 120Ω. The optional shields around the twisted  pair  help  reduce  unwanted  noise,  and  are  connected to GND at one end.

## Thermal Shutdown

The LTC487 has a thermal  shutdown feature  which  protects the part from excessive power dissipation. If the outputs of the driver are accidently shorted to a power supply or low impedance source, up to 250mA can flow through the part. The thermal shutdown circuit disables the driver outputs when the internal temperature reaches 150°C and turns them back on when the temperature cools to 130°C. If the outputs of two or more L TC487 drivers are shorted directly, the driver outputs can not supply enough current to activate the thermal shutdown. Thus, the thermal shutdown circuit will not prevent contention faults when two drivers are active on the bus at the same time.

## Cable and Data Rate

The transmission line of choice for RS485 applications is a twisted pair . There are coaxial cables (twinaxial) made for this purpose that contain straight pairs, but these are less flexible, more bulky, and more costly than twisted pairs. Many cable manufacturers offer a broad range of 120Ω cables designed for RS485 applications.

Figure 6. Typical Connection

<!-- image -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

Losses in a  transmission  line  are  a  complex  combination  of DC conductor loss, AC losses (skin  effect),  leakage,  and  AC losses in the dielectric. In good polyethylene cables such as the Belden 9841, the conductor losses and dielectric losses are of the same order of magnitude, leading to relatively low overall loss (Figure 7).

<!-- image -->

LTC487 TA08

Figure 7. Attenuation vs Frequency for Belden 9841

When using low loss cables, Figure 8 can be used as a  guideline  for  choosing  the  maximum  line  length  for a  given  data  rate.  With  lower  quality  PVC  cables,  the dielectric  loss  factor  can  be  1000  times  worse.  PVC twisted  pairs  have  terrible  losses  at  high  data  rates (&gt; 100kbs) and greatly reduce the maximum cable length. At low data rates however , they are acceptable and much more economical.

<!-- image -->

LTC487 TA09

Figure 8. Cable Length vs Data Rate

## Cable Termination

The proper termination of the cable is  very  important.  If  the cable is not terminated with its characteristic impedance, distorted waveforms will result. In severe cases, distorted (false) data and nulls will occur . A quick look at the output of the driver will tell how well the cable is terminated. It is best to look at a driver connected to the end of the cable, since this eliminates the possibility of getting reflections from  two  directions.  Simply  look  at  the  driver  output while transmitting square wave data. If the cable is terminated properly, the waveform will look like a square wave (Figure 9).

Figure 9. Termination Effects

<!-- image -->

If the cable is loaded excessively (47Ω), the signal initially sees the surge impedance of the cable and jumps to an initial amplitude. The signal travels down the cable and is reflected back out of phase because of the mistermination. When the reflected signal returns to the driver , the amplitude will be lowered. The width of the pedestal is equal to twice the electrical length of the cable (about 1.5ns/foot). If the cable is lightly loaded (470Ω), the signal reflects in phase and increases the amplitude at the driver output. An input frequency of 30kHz is adequate for tests out to 4000 feet of cable.

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## AC Cable Termination

Cable termination resistors are necessary to prevent unwanted reflections, but they consume power . The typical differential output voltage of the driver is 2V when the cable  is  terminated  with  two  120Ω  resistors,  causing 33mA of DC current to flow in the cable when no data is being sent. This DC current is about 220 times greater than the supply current of the LTC487. One way to eliminate the unwanted current is by AC coupling the termination resistors as shown in Figure 10.

Figure 10. AC-Coupled Termination

<!-- image -->

The coupling capacitor must allow high-frequency energy to flow to the termination, but block DC and low frequencies. The dividing line between high and low frequency depends  on  the  length  of  the  cable.  The  coupling  capacitor must pass frequencies above the point where the line  represents an electrical one-tenth wavelength. The value of the coupling capacitor should therefore be set at 16.3pF per foot of cable length for 120Ω cables. With the coupling  capacitors  in  place,  power  is  consumed  only on the signal edges, and not when the driver output is idling at a 1 or 0 state. A 100nF capacitor is adequate for lines up to 4000 feet in length. Be aware that the power savings start to decrease once the data rate surpasses 1/(120Ω · C).

## Receiver Open-Circuit Fail-Safe

Some data encoding schemes require that the output of the receiver maintains a known state (usually a logic 1) when the data is finished transmitting and all drivers on the line  are  forced  into  three-state.  All  L TC  RS485  receivers have a fail-safe feature which guarantees the output to be in a logic 1 state when the receiver inputs are left floating (open-circuit). However , when the cable is terminated with 120Ω, the differential inputs to the receiver are shorted

<!-- image -->

together , not left floating. Because the receiver has about 70mV of hysteresis, the receiver output will maintain the last data bit received.

If the receiver output must be forced to a known state, the circuits of Figure 11 can be used.

<!-- image -->

LTC487 TA12

Figure 11. Forcing '0' When All Drivers Are Off

The  termination  resistors  are  used  to  generate  a  DC bias which forces the receiver output to a known state, in this case a logic 0. The first method consumes about 208mW and the second about 8mW. The lowest power solution is to use an AC termination with a pull-up resistor .  Simply swap the receiver inputs for data protocols ending in logic 1.

## Fault Protection

All of L TC's RS485 products are protected against ESD transients  up  to  2kV  using  the  human  body  model (100pF , 1.5kΩ). However , some applications need more protection. The best protection method is to connect a bidirectional T ransZorb from each line side pin to ground (Figure 12).

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

A T ransZorb is a silicon transient voltage suppressor that has exceptional surge handling capabilities, fast response time, and low series resistance. They are available in a variety of breakdown voltages and prices. Be sure to pick a breakdown voltage higher than the common mode voltage required for your application (typically 12V). Also, don't forget to check how much the added parasitic capacitance will load down the bus.

## PACKAGE DESCRIPTION

## N Package

16-Lead PDIP (Narrow .300 Inch)

(Reference LTC DWG # 05-08-1510)

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

N16 1002

<!-- image -->

NOTE:/.notdef

1. DIMENSIONS ARE/.notdef

INCHES/.notdef

MILLIMETERS

/.notdef *THESE DIMENSIONS DO NOT INCLUDE MOLD FLASH OR PROTRUSIONS./.notdef MOLD FLASH OR PROTRUSIONS SHALL NOT EXCEED .010 INCH (0.254mm)

<!-- image -->

Figure 11. Forcing '0' When All Drivers Are Off

<!-- image -->

## PACKAGE DESCRIPTION

SW Package

## 16-Lead Plastic Small Outline (Wide .300 Inch)

(Reference LTC DWG # 05-08-1620)

<!-- image -->

RECOMMENDED SOLDER PAD LAYOUT

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

## NOTE:/.notdef

1. DIMENSIONS IN /.notdef

INCHES/.notdef

(MILLIMETERS)

- /.notdef 2. DRAWING NOT TO SCALE/.notdef
3. PIN 1 IDENT, NOTCH ON TOP AND CAVITIES ON THE BOTTOM OF PACKAGES ARE THE MANUFACTURING OPTIONS./.notdef THE PART MAY BE SUPPLIED WITH OR WITHOUT ANY OF THE OPTIONS/.notdef
4. THESE DIMENSIONS DO NOT INCLUDE MOLD FLASH OR PROTRUSIONS./.notdef MOLD FLASH OR PROTRUSIONS SHALL NOT EXCEED .006" (0.15mm)

<!-- image -->

S16 (WIDE) 0502

## REVISION HISTORY (Revision history begins at Rev C)

| REV   | DATE   | DESCRIPTION                                                      | PAGE NUMBER   |
|-------|--------|------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| C     | 8/10   | Reversed temperature ranges for LTC487CSW#PBF and LTC487IN#PBF . | 2             |
| D     | 4/26   | Updated format                                                   | Universal     |
|       |        | Changes to Features and Description                              | 1             |
|       |        | Changes to Absolute Maximum Ratings and Order Information        | 2             |
|       |        | Changes to the DC Electrical Characteristics table               | 3             |
|       |        | Change to Typical Application figure                             | 12            |

## TYPICAL APPLICATION

## RS232 to RS485 Level T ranslator with Hysteresis

<!-- image -->

For more information www.analog.com

<!-- image -->