<!-- lastmod 2026-02-10 -->
<!-- image -->

## FEATURES

- Analog I/O
- Up to 32 external voltage/current channels, single-ended
- Selectable 12-bit, 2MSPS ADC sample or 3 channel monitor output
- Sequence mode with digital comparators
- 0V to VREF analog input range
- Power/VDAC/IDAC/temperature monitor internal channels
- 17 Channel, 12-bit voltage output DACs
- 0V ~ 2.5V/ VDDVDACx - 0.2V, selectable output range
- 35mA source and 10mA sink drive ability, voltage, and current monitoring
- 1 Channel, 12-bit voltage output DACs
- 0V ~ 2.5V/ AVDD - 0.3V, selectable output range
- 2mA source drive ability, voltage, and current monitoring
- 8 Channel, low noise,12-bit current output DACs
- Configurable output range: 100 mA, 150 mA, 200 mA, or 250mA
- Voltage and current monitoring
- Integrated photodiode bias (VCMH)
- 50mA output current range
- 0.5V ~ 2.52V/(AVDD - 0.35V) output voltage range
- Digital Interface
- 1x SPI, 3.3V/1.8V, 40MHz
- 1x I2C, 3.3V/1.8V, 100KHz/400KHz/1MHz
- 8 separate IDAC fast disable pin for corresponding IDAC channel
- Power
- Multiple supplies, separate IDAC/VDAC power supply to save power
- AVDD/DVDD: 2.85V ~ 3.63V
- IOVDD: 1.7V ~ 3.63V
- PVDDx: 1.50V ~ AVDD
- VDDVDACx: 2.85V ~ AVDD
- Packages and temperature range
- 3.8 mm × 3.9mm, 0.35mm pitch, 100-ball WLCSP package
- Fully specified for -40°C to +125°C junction temperature

## APPLICATIONS

- Optical networking - 1.6T/3.2T or higher speed optical modules

## AD1088

## High Precision Analog Front End For Optical Control

## GENERAL DESCRIPTION

The AD1088 is an analog front end (AFE) that includes a high precision analog-to-digital converter (ADC), voltage output digital to-analog converters (VDACs), current output digital-to-analog converters (IDACs).

The analog input contains 32 external voltage/current inputs channels, it can use three monitor output pins for external measurement current/voltage or use a 12-bit 2 MSPS successive approximation register (SAR) ADC for on-chip sampling.

The AD1088 provides eight IDAC channels. These are low noise, low drift current sources with programmable full-scale output ranges (100 mA, 150 mA, 200 mA, or 250 mA). Each IDAC channel has 12-bit resolution and support fast shut down with each DISIDACx pin.

There are 17 channels, 12-bit VDAC outputs that support a voltage range of 0V to VDDVDACx - 0.2V with 35mA source ability and 10mA sink drive ability.

There is one channel, 12-bit VDAC outputs that support a voltage range of 0V to AVDD - 0.3V with 2mA source ability.

Use the 4-wire serial port interface (SPI) for up to 20MHz or the 2-wire I2C interface for up 1MHz to configure each functional block and to collect the ADC data.

## NOTES

## Legal Terms and Conditions

Information furnished by Analog Devices is believed to be accurate and reliable "as is". However, no responsibility is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All Analog Devices products contained herein are subject to release and availability.