<!-- lastmod 2024-03-26 -->
<!-- image -->

## A 2 B BUS FEATURES

## Line topology

Single main node, up to 16 subordinate nodes Up to 15 m between nodes and up to 80 m overall cable length

## Communication over distance

Synchronous data

Multichannel I 2 S/TDM to I 2 S/TDM

Clock synchronous, phase aligned in all nodes

Low latency node to node communication

Control and status information I 2 C to I 2 C

GPIO over distance

Bus power or local power subordinate nodes Configurable with SigmaStudio/SigmaStudio+ graphical software tool AEC-Q100 qualified for automotive applications

## BASELINE A 2 B TRANSCEIVER FEATURES

Configurable as A 2 B bus main node or subordinate node

Programmable via I 2 C and SPI interfaces

8-bit to 32-bit multichannel I 2 S/TDM interface

I 2 S/TDM/PDM programmable data rate

Up to 32 upstream and 32 downstream channels

PDM inputs for 4 high dynamic range microphones on main or subordinate nodes

Simultaneous I 2 S/TDM operations with up to 4 PDM microphones

## Automotive Audio Bus (A 2 B) Transceiver

## AD2431/AD2432/AD2433/AD2435

Unique ID register for each transceiver

Support for crossover or straight-through cabling Programmable settings to optimize EMC performance

## AD243x TRANSCEIVER ENHANCEMENTS

## Mixed Signal

Up to 50 W A 2 B bus power Increased voltage regulator capacity (up to 100 mA) ADC monitoring of supply voltages Supports 3.3 V input at VIN in Low Voltage Input (LVI) mode

## Digital

High speed SPI (up to 10 Mbps) over distance

A 2 B bus self-discovery

Dedicated hardware reset pin

I 2 S/TDM crossbar switch

Flexible mapping of Tx/Rx TDM channel data to A B slot Support for I 2 C fast mode plus (1 MHz)

2

Support for in cabin LED control using 4 PWM outputs

8 GPIO pins with configurable pin mapping

## APPLICATIONS

Distributed audio systems Personal audio zones In car communications

Smart/remote tuner modules

Figure 1.  Functional Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

A 2 B and the A 2 B logo are registered trademarks of Analog Devices, Inc.

## Rev. SpB

## Document Feedback

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable. However,  no  responsibility  is  assumed  by  Analog  Devices  for  its  use,  nor  for  any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

## AD2431/AD2432/AD2433/AD2435

## GENERAL DESCRIPTION

The Automotive Audio Bus (A 2 B ® ) provides a multichannel, I 2 S/TDM link over distances of up to 15 m between nodes. It embeds bidirectional synchronous pulse-code modulation (PCM) data (for example, digital audio), clock, and synchronization signals onto a single unshielded twisted pair (UTP) differential cable. A 2 B supports a direct point to point connection and allows multiple, daisy-chained nodes at different locations to contribute and/or consume time division multiplexed channel content.

A 2 B is a single main node, multiple subordinate node system where the transceiver at the host controller is the main node. The main node generates clock, synchronization, and framing for all subordinate nodes. The main A 2 B transceiver is programmable over a control port (I 2 C/SPI) for configuration and read back. An extension of the control port protocol is embedded in the A 2 B data stream. This allows direct access to registers and status information on subordinate transceivers, as well as I 2 C to I 2 C, SPI to I 2 C, or SPI to SPI communication from the host to a

Table 1.  Product Comparison Guide

| Feature                         | AD2431      | AD2432        | AD2433             | AD2435        |
|---------------------------------|-------------|---------------|--------------------|---------------|
| Main node capable               | No          | No            | Yes                | Yes           |
| Functional TRX blocks           | A only      | A + B         | A + B              | A + B         |
| I 2 S/TDM support               | No          | No            | Yes                | Yes           |
| PDMmicrophone inputs            | 4 mics      | 4 mics        | 4 mics             | 4 mics        |
| A 2 B bus power                 | N/A         | High (≤ 50 W) | Standard (≤ 2.7 W) | High (≤ 50 W) |
| Nominal bus bias voltage (VBUS) | 7 V to 24 V | 7 V to 24 V   | 4 V to 9 V         | 7 V to 24 V   |
| SPI                             | No          | No            | Yes                | Yes           |
| Power configuration 1           | N/A         | CFG-4         | CFG-0              | CFG-4         |

I 2 C refers to a communications protocol originally developed by Philips Semiconductors (now NXP Semiconductors).

© 2023  Analog  Devices,  Inc.  All  rights  reserved.  Trademarks  and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.  D25790F-5/23(SpB)

<!-- image -->

peripheral in a subordinate node. SPI to SPI communication between subordinate nodes can be performed directly and does not need to involve the main node.

The transceiver can connect directly to general-purpose digital signal processors (DSPs), field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), application specific integrated circuits (ASICs), microphones, analog-to-digital converters (ADCs), digital-toanalog converters (DACs), and codecs through a multichannel I 2 S/TDM interface. It also provides a pulse density modulation (PDM) interface for direct connection of up to four PDM digital microphones.

Finally, the transceiver also supports an A 2 B bus powering feature, where the main node supplies voltage and current to the subordinate nodes over the same daisy-chained, twisted pair wire cable as used for the communication link.

Complete technical specifications are available for the A 2 B transceiver. Contact a2b.support@analog.com to complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.