<!-- lastmod 2025-11-17 -->
<!-- image -->

## A 2 B 2.0 BUS FEATURES

## Line topology

Single main node, up to 11 subordinate nodes

Up to 15 m between nodes and up to 80 m overall cable length

98.304 Mbps full duplex

## Clock synchronous multichannel I 2 S/TDM data over distance

119 upstream and 119 downstream channels per link

(for 48 kHz sampled 16-bit channels)

Individual 16, 24, or 32-bit channels

Phase-aligned sampling at all nodes

Low latency node to node communication

Asynchronous data over distance

Up to 23 Mbps Ethernet Layer-2 A 2 B MAC-PHY

unicast/multicast/broadcast

SPI to SPI, SPI to I 2 C

I 2 C to I 2 C

Mailbox message exchanges up to 126 bytes GPIO to GPIO

## ADAA245x TRANSCEIVER FEATURES

Configurable as A 2 B bus main node or subordinate node Node descriptor/one time programmable (OTP) memory Auto-discovery

## Automotive Audio Bus (A 2 B 2.0) Transceiver

ADAA2455/2456/2457

Line diagnostics per link without bias

Wake-on-A 2 B activity

Clock output on subordinate nodes without bus operation EMC, ESD optimized for automotive applications

## ADAA245x INTERFACE FEATURES

Ethernet interface via OA SPI

8 configurable serial IO (SIO) (I 2 S/TDM/PDM) data pins

2 SIO (I 2 S/TDM) clock domains

I 2 C and SPI interfaces

4 PWM outputs

2 general-purpose ADC inputs

Up to 16 GPIOs (multiplexed onto other pins)

4-channel ASRC input and output

## AUTOMOTIVE APPLICATIONS

Distributed audio systems Personal audio zones Rear seat entertainment Remote AM/FM/DAB/HD tuner modules In-car telematics and emergency call system Overhead console High definition (HD) audio

Figure 1.  Functional Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

A 2 B and the A 2 B logo are registered trademarks of Analog Devices, Inc.

## Rev. Sp0                                                                                           Document Feedback

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable. However,  no  responsibility  is  assumed  by  Analog  Devices  for  its  use,  nor  for  any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

## ADAA2455/2456/2457

## GENERAL DESCRIPTION

The Automotive Audio Bus A 2 B ® 2.0 transceivers (ADAA245x) quadruple the available bus bandwidth relative to existing A 2 B 1.0 1 devices, making them particularly well suited for high definition (HD) audio transport in ECU connectivity applications. ADAA245x devices are compatible with existing A 2 B 1.0 cabling/connector infrastructures and fully supported by SigmaStudio+ ® , a unified software framework from Analog Devices. Additionally, the ADAA245x family and future A 2 B 2.0 devices can easily be connected to A 2 B 1.0 branches using their integrated, industry-standard I 2 S, I 2 C, and SPI interfaces.

A 2 B provides a multichannel, multistream digital audio link over distances of up to 15 m between nodes. It embeds bidirectional synchronous pulse code modulation (PCM) data (for example, digital audio from I 2 S/TDM interface), clock, and synchronization signals, as well as asynchronous data (for example, Ethernet packets) onto a single differential wire pair. A 2 B supports a direct point to point connection or line topology with multiple, daisy-chained nodes at different locations that can contribute and/or use time division multiplexed channel content.

1 A 2 B 1.0 in this document refers to AD240x/AD241x/AD242x/AD243x products.

Table 1.  Product Comparison Guide

| Feature                    | ADAA2455   | ADAA2456   | ADAA2457   |
|----------------------------|------------|------------|------------|
| Main node capable          | No         | Yes        | Yes        |
| I 2 S/TDM interface        | No         | Yes        | Yes        |
| PWMoutputs                 | No         | Yes        | Yes        |
| PDMmicrophone inputs       | 4 mics     | 4 mics     | 4 mics     |
| SPI interface              | No         | Yes        | Yes        |
| OASPI Ethernet interface 1 | No         | No         | Yes        |

I 2 C refers to a communications protocol originally developed by Philips Semiconductors (now NXP Semiconductors).

© 2026  Analog  Devices,  Inc.  All  rights  reserved.  Trademarks  and registered  trademarks  are  the  property  of  their  respective  owners.

<!-- image -->

A 2 B is a single main node, multiple subordinate node system where the transceiver at the host controller is part of the main node. The main node generates clock, synchronization, and framing for all subordinate nodes. The main A 2 B transceiver is programmable over a control bus (I 2 C or SPI) for configuration and read back. An extension of this control bus is embedded in the A 2 B data stream, which grants direct access to registers and status information on subordinate transceivers, as well as I 2 C to I 2 C, SPI to SPI, SPI to I 2 C and GPIO to GPIO communication over distance.

The transceiver can connect directly to general-purpose digital signal processors (DSPs) or microprocessors, field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), application specific integrated circuits (ASICs), microphones, accelerometers, analog-to-digital converters (ADCs), digital-to-analog converters (DACs), and codecs through a multichannel I 2 S/TDM interface. It also provides a pulse density modulation (PDM) interface for direct connection of up to four PDM digital microphones. The transceiver's pulse width modulated (PWM) outputs can control LED drivers or voltage regulators. GPIO status and control is directly conveyed between nodes.

Complete technical specifications are available for the A 2 B transceivers. Contact auto.a2b.support@analog.com to receive additional product information.