<!-- lastmod 2025-06-04 -->
<!-- image -->

## ADAS1021

## 5-Channel ECG AFE with Respiration, Pacemaker Detection and Lead-Off/Quality Detection

## FEATURES

- 5 ECG acquisition channels and 1 driven reference
- Flexible front-end arrangement allows right arm electrode or WCT referenced
- Dedicated per channel Σ-Δ ADC
- 50 mV typical calibration signal for gain correction
- Digital 50 Hz or 60 Hz mains power line filtering
- Flexible pacemaker detection capability
- Digital detection algorithm on selectable 3 of 5 ECG channels
- Programmable threshold levels
- Dedicated high sample rate SAR ADCs
- Lead-off or lead fail detection
- DC lead-off detection on ECG and RLD\_OUT
- Programmable polarity, current, and threshold levels
- AC lead quality measurement
- Programmable polarity, current
- Reference electrode drive
- Flexible redirection to other electrodes if RLD lead failure
- Respiration measurement using impedance pneumography
- Shield drive amplifier
- Parallel ICs for larger lead count configurations
- SPI communication and 8 user programmable GPIOs
- Power
- Low power architecture
- Single channel ECG power: 3.04 mW
- 3 channel ECG power: 4.95 mW
- 5 channel ECG power: 7.64 mW
- Designed for use with ADP5320 PMU
- Operates from 2 or 3 voltage rails: 5 V, 1.8 V, or 1.2 V
- Packages and temperature range
- Operating temperature range: -10°C to +85°C
- Package: 65-ball, 5.6 mm × 6.2 mm WLCSP
- Supports medical standards: IEC 60601-2-25 Ed. 2.0 2011, IEC 60601-2-27 Ed. 3.0 2011, and IEC 60601-2-47 Ed. 2.0 2012

## APPLICATIONS

- Portable and line powered ECG monitor and diagnostic measurement
- Battery powered ECG equipment

For up to date information on the production release timelines, contact your local Analog Devices, Inc., sales representatives or send an email to ADAS1021@analog.com.

Rev. SpC

DOCUMENT FEEDBACK

## SIMPLIFIED FUNCTIONAL BLOCK DIAGRAM

Figure 1.

<!-- image -->

## GENERAL DESCRIPTION

The ADAS1021 is a highly integrated, analog front end (AFE) designed for measurement of patient biopotential information. The primary measurement performed is electrocardiogram (ECG) activity, where the ADAS1021 employs dedicated Σ-Δ analog-to-digital converters (ADCs) per channel to acquire and digitize on a lead basis. The signal acquisition is architected to support low noise, diagnostic level measurement in the presence of a variety of interferers.

The ADAS1021 also includes three dedicated successive approximation register (SAR) ADCs to digitize the high frequency pacemaker content that is analyzed by the on-chip pacemaker detection algorithm.

A dedicated and flexible impedance measurement block captures impedance variation during patient respiration and is available on multiple leads.

The ADAS1021 has a number of complementary features supporting ECG measurement: driven reference for common-mode rejection and lead-off detection that identifies if an electrode connection is degrading or has fallen off. The product also includes a shield drive amplifier to bias the shield of the cable.

## NOTES

<!-- image -->