<!-- lastmod 2025-03-27 -->
<!-- image -->

Data Shee t

## FEATURES

Battery pack current measurement

Buffered analog inputs

Continuous operation option

Lossless measurement for coulomb counting

1 ms update rate

±0.1% maximum gain error

±1 µV maximum offset

Redundant implementation

Battery pack voltage measurement

Buffered analog inputs

Synchronous with current measurement

Differential and single-ended mode

Redundant implementation

Up to 20 voltage measurement channels

Buffered analog inputs

On-demand operation

Differential and single-ended mode

Redundant implementation

Built-in external reference

True ratiometric measurements

Overcurrent detection

Triple redundancy with majority voting

PWM output options

Built-in isoSPI™ interface

2 Mbps isolated serial communications

Capacitor or transformer coupled

Daisy-chaining option

4-wire SPI option

General-purpose digital IO

Six general-purpose outputs (GPOs)

Dual threshold read-back of GPOs

Four GPIOs configurable as an I 2 C or SPI controller

48-Lead side-solderable QFN package

AEC-Q100 qualified

Developed for use in ISO 26262 applications for automotive safety integrity level capability D (ASIL D)

## APPLICATIONS

Electric and hybrid electric vehicles Backup battery systems Grid energy storage

## Battery Pack and Link Monitors ADBMS2960/ ADBMS 2961/ ADBMS 2962

## GENERAL DESCRIPTION

The ADBMS2960 and ADBMS2962 are battery pack monitors and the ADBMS2961 is a link monitor for electrical and hybrid vehicles, and other current or voltage sense applications.

The term ADBMS Pack Monitor refers to the ADBMS2960 and ADBMS2962. The term ADBMS Link Monitor refers to the ADBMS2961.

The ADBMS Pack Monitor measures the current flowing in and out of a battery pack by sensing the voltage drop over a shunt resistor with very low offset. It also detects overcurrent conditions by fast overcurrent ADCs with digital threshold comparators and communicates them by dedicated overcurrent alert lines with minimum delay.

Six digital outputs (GPO) supporting open-drain or push-pull mode can be used to control HV transistors to disconnect external resistor dividers. Four digital general-purpose inputs/outputs (GPIO) can also operate as an I 2 C/SPI controller interface to address external serial peripherals (such as EEPROM).

A total of 12 dedicated buffered high-impedance inputs (V1 to V10, VBAT1, and VBAT2) are provided for measuring voltages from external sensors or resistor dividers enabling measurement of pack voltages, temperatures, HV-Link voltages, chassis isolation, and supervision of the state of contactors and fuses. An additional eight buffered highimpedance inputs (V11 to V18) are available in certain configurations for a total of 20 inputs. The built-in serial interface of the ADBMS Pack Monitor can be configured for SPI or isolated isoSPI communication with the BMS controller. It has an additional isoSPI port, which allows connecting a daisy-chain of ADBMS Pack Monitor devices, optionally extended withADBMS6834/6836/6837 cell monitors (ADBMS

cell monitors).

Table 1. ADBMS296x Derivative Overview

| FEATURE               | ADBMS2960   | ADBMS2961   | ADBMS2962   |
|-----------------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|
| isoSPI Ports          | 2           | 2           | -           |
| SPI                   | 1           | 1           | 1           |
| Current Channels      | 2           | -           | 2           |
| Overcurrent Channels  | 3           | -           | 3           |
| Pack Voltage Channels | 2           | 2           | 2           |
| HV Voltage Channels   | 10 to 18    | 10 to 18    | 10 to 18    |
| GPOs                  | 6           | 6           | 6           |
| GPIOs                 | 4           | 4           | 4           |

One Analog Tel: 781.935.5565 Technical Support

Way,

## ADBMS2960/ ADBMS 2961/ ADBMS 2962

NOTES

<!-- image -->

Data Sheet