<!-- lastmod 2025-09-05 -->
<!-- image -->

Data Sheet

## FEATURES

12-bit, 45 MHz ADC CDS with variable gain 0 dB to 36 dB, 10-bit VGA Black level clamp with variable level control Precision Timing core with 174 ps resolution Integrated, 7-channel H-driver and RG clock drivers 7-channel LD driver Integrated 16-channel V-driver Complete on-chip ISA timing generator I 2 C serial interface MIPI CSI-2 transmit interface with support for 1 or 2 data lanes On-chip driver for external crystal 8 GPOs 6 mm × 6 mm, 117-ball WLCSP package with 0.5 mm pitch

## APPLICATIONS

TOF CCD cameras

## CCD TOF Signal Processor with

## Programmable Timing and V-Driver

ADDI9036

## GENERAL DESCRIPTION

The ADDI9036 is a complete, 45 MHz, front-end solution for charge coupled device (CCD) time of flight (TOF) imaging applications. The ADDI9036 includes an analog front end (AFE), a programmable instruction set architecture (ISA) timing generator (ISATG), a 7-channel laser diode (LD) driver, a 7-channel H-driver, and a 16-channel vertical driver (V-driver). The Precision Timing ® core allows adjustment of the CCD horizontal clocks and LD outputs with approximately 174 ps resolution at 45 MHz operation.

The AFE includes black level clamping, a correlated double sampler (CDS), a variable gain amplifier (VGA), and a 12-bit analog-to-digital converter (ADC). The AFE data is output through the MIPI® CSI-2 transmit interface.

The internal registers can be programmed by an I 2 C serial interface.

The ADDI9036 is packaged in a 6 mm × 6 mm, 117-ball WLCSP and is specified over an operating temperature range of -20°C to +85°C.

## FUNCTIONAL BLOCK DIAGRAM

Figure 1.

<!-- image -->

For more information about the ADDI9036, contact Analog Devices, Inc., at afe.ccd@analog.com .

Rev. Sp0 Document Feedback Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However ,  no responsibility is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No lic ense is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

## ADDI9036

## NOTES

<!-- image -->

Data Sheet