<!-- lastmod 2025-09-05 -->
<!-- image -->

## SUMMARY

- High performance 32-bit DSP-applications in audio, medical, military, graphics, imaging, and communication
- Super Harvard architecture-4 independent buses for dual data fetch, instruction fetch, and nonintrusive, zero-overhead I/O

Backward compatible-assembly source level compatible with code for ADSP-2106x DSPs

Single-instruction, multiple-data (SIMD) computational architecture-two 32-bit IEEE floating-point computation units, each with a multiplier, ALU, shifter, and register file Integrated peripherals-integrated I/O processor, 4M bits on-chip dual-ported SRAM, glueless multiprocessing features, and ports (serial, link, external bus, and JTAG)

## SHARC

## Digital Signal Processor

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

## FEATURES

100 MHz (10 ns) core instruction rate (ADSP-21160N)

- Single-cycle instruction execution, including SIMD operations in both computational units

Dual data address generators (DAGs) with modulo and bitreverse addressing

Zero-overhead looping and single-cycle loop setup, providing efficient program sequencing

IEEE 1149.1 JTAG standard Test Access Port and on-chip emulation

400-ball 27 mm × 27 mm PBGA package

Available in lead-free (RoHS compliant) package 200 million fixed-point MACs sustained performance (ADSP-21160N)

Figure 1. Functional Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

SHARC and the SHARC logo are registered trademarks of Analog Devices, Inc.

## Document Feedback

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable. However,  no  responsibility  is  assumed  by  Analog  Devices  for  its  use,  nor  for  any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

I/O PROCESSOR

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

## Single-instruction, multiple-data (SIMD)

architecture provides

Two computational processing elements

Concurrent execution-each processing element executes the same instruction, but operates on different data

Code compatibility-at assembly level, uses the same instruction set as the ADSP-2106x SHARC DSPs

Parallelism in buses and computational units allows

Single-cycle execution (with or without SIMD) of a multiply operation, an ALU operation, a dual memory read or write, and an instruction fetch

Transfers between memory and core at up to four 32-bit floating- or fixed-point words per cycle

Accelerated FFT butterfly computation through a multiply with add and subtract

## Memory attributes

- 4M bits on-chip dual-ported SRAM for independent access by core processor, host, and DMA

4G word address range for off-chip memory

Memory interface supports programmable wait state generation and page-mode for off-chip memory

## DMA controller supports

- 14 zero-overhead DMA channels for transfers between ADSP-21160x internal memory and external memory, external peripherals, host processor, serial ports, or link ports
- 64-bit background DMA transfers at core clock speed, in parallel with full-speed processor execution

Host processor interface to 16- and 32-bit microprocessors Multiprocessing support provides

- Glueless connection for scalable DSP multiprocessing architecture
- Distributed on-chip bus arbitration for parallel bus connect of up to 6 ADSP-21160x processors plus host
- 6 link ports for point-to-point connectivity and array multiprocessing

## Serial ports provide

Two synchronous serial ports with companding hardware Independent transmit and receive functions

TDM support for T1 and E1 interfaces

- 64-bit-wide synchronous external port provides

Glueless connection to asynchronous and SBSRAM external memories

## TABLE OF CONTENTS

| General Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                     | . 4   |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------|
| ADSP-21160x Family Core Architecture . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                              | . 4   |
| Memory and I/O Interface Features . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                   | . 7   |
| Development Tools . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                           | . 9   |
| Additional Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                | 10    |
| Related Signal Chains . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                             | 10    |
| Pin Function Descriptions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                               | 11    |
| Specifications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                        | 15    |
| Operating Conditions-ADSP-21160M . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                                | 15    |
| Electrical Characteristics-ADSP-21160M . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                                | 16    |
| Operating Conditions-ADSP-21160N . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                              | 17    |
| Electrical Characteristics-ADSP-21160N . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                                | 18    |
| Absolute Maximum Ratings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                          | 19    |
| REVISION HISTORY 9/15-Rev. Cto Rev.D                                                                                                                      |       |
| Removed model ADSP-21160NKB-100 (no longer available) from Ordering Guide . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . | 58    |

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

| ESD Sensitivity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    |   19 |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------|
| Package Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              |   19 |
| Timing Specifications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              |   20 |
| Output Drive Currents-ADSP-21160M                                                |   47 |
| Output Drive Currents-ADSP-21160N                                                |   47 |
| Power Dissipation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          |   47 |
| Test Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      |   48 |
| Environmental Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         |   51 |
| 400-Ball PBGA Pin Configurations . . . . . . . . .                               |   52 |
| Outline Dimensions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       |   57 |
| Surface-Mount Design . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           |   57 |
| Ordering Guide . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |   58 |

## GENERAL DESCRIPTION

The ADSP-21160x SHARC ® DSP family has two members: ADSP-21160M and ADSP-21160N. The ADSP-21160M is fabricated in a 0.25 micron CMOS process. The ADSP-21160N is fabricated in a 0.18 micron CMOS process. The ADSP-21160N offers higher performance and lower power consumption than the ADSP-21160M. Easing portability, the ADSP-21160x is application source code compatible with first generation ADSP-2106x SHARC DSPs in SISD (single instruction, single data) mode. To take advantage of the processor's SIMD (singleinstruction, multiple-data) capability, some code changes are needed. Like other SHARC DSPs, the ADSP-21160x is a 32-bit processor that is optimized for high performance DSP applications. The ADSP-21160x includes a core running up to 100 MHz, a dual-ported on-chip SRAM, an integrated I/O processor with multiprocessing support, and multiple internal buses to eliminate I/O bottlenecks.

Table 1 shows major differences between the ADSP-21160M and ADSP-21160N processors.

Table 1. ADSP-21160x SHARC Processor Family Features

| Feature                       | ADSP-21160M   | ADSP-21160N   |
|-------------------------------|---------------|---------------|
| SRAM                          | 4 Mbits       | 4 Mbits       |
| Operating Voltage             | 3.3 V I/O     | 3.3 V I/O     |
|                               | 2.5 V Core    | 1.9 V Core    |
| Instruction Rate              | 80 MHz        | 100 MHz       |
| Link Port Transfer Rate (6)   | 80 MBytes/s   | 100 MBytes/s  |
| Serial Port Transfer Rate (2) | 40 Mbits/s    | 50 Mbits/s    |

The ADSP-21160x introduces single-instruction, multiple-data (SIMD) processing. Using two computational units (ADSP-2106x SHARC DSPs have one), the ADSP-21160x can double performance versus the ADSP-2106x on a range of DSP algorithms.

Fabricated in a state-of-the-art, high speed, low power CMOS process, the ADSP-21160N has a 10 ns instruction cycle time. With its SIMD computational hardware running at 100 MHz, the ADSP-21160N can perform 600 million math operations per second (480 million operations for ADSP-21160M at a 12.5 ns instruction cycle time).

Table 2 shows performance benchmarks for the ADSP-21160x.

These benchmarks provide single-channel extrapolations of measured dual-channel (SIMD) processing performance. For more information on benchmarking and optimizing DSP code for single- and dual-channel processing, see the Analog Devices website (www.analog.com).

The ADSP-21160x continues the SHARC family's industryleading standards of integration for DSPs, combining a high performance 32-bit DSP core with integrated, on-chip system features. These features include a 4M-bit dual-ported SRAM memory, host processor interface, I/O processor that supports 14 DMA channels, two serial ports, six link ports, external parallel bus, and glueless multiprocessing.

Table 2. ADSP-21160x Benchmarks

| Benchmark Algorithm                             | ADSP-21160M 80MHz   | ADSP-21160N 100MHz   |
|-------------------------------------------------|---------------------|----------------------|
| 1024 Point Complex FFT (Radix 4, with reversal) | 115 µs              | 92 µs                |
| FIR Filter (per tap)                            | 6.25 ns             | 5 ns                 |
| IIR Filter (per biquad)                         | 25 ns               | 20 ns                |
| Matrix Multiply (pipelined) [3  3]  [3  1]   | 56.25 ns            | 45 ns                |
| [4  4]  [4  1]                               | 100 ns              | 80 ns                |
| Divide (y/x)                                    | 37.5 ns             | 30 ns                |
| Inverse Square Root                             | 56.25 ns            | 45 ns                |
| DMATransfer Rate                                | 560M bytes/s        | 800M bytes/s         |

The functional block diagram (Figure 1 on Page 1) of the ADSP-21160x illustrates the following architectural features:

- Two processing elements, each made up of an ALU, multiplier, shifter, and data register file
- Data address generators (DAG1, DAG2)
- Program sequencer with instruction cache
- PM and DM buses capable of supporting four 32-bit data transfers between memory and the core every core processor cycle
- Interval timer
- On-chip SRAM (4M bits)
- External port that supports:
- Interfacing to off-chip memory peripherals
- Glueless multiprocessing support for six ADSP-21160x SHARC DSPs
- Host port
- DMA controller
- Serial ports and link ports
- JTAG test access port

Figure 2 shows a typical single-processor system. A multiprocessing system appears in Figure 3 on Page 6.

## ADSP-21160X FAMILY CORE ARCHITECTURE

The ADSP-21160x processor includes the following architectural features of the ADSP-2116x family core. The ADSP-21160x is code compatible at the assembly level with the ADSP-2106x and ADSP-21161.

## SIMD Computational Engine

The ADSP-21160x contains two computational processing elements that operate as a single-instruction multiple-data (SIMD) engine. The processing elements are referred to as PEX and PEY, and each contains an ALU, multiplier, shifter, and register file. PEX is always active, and PEY may be enabled by setting the PEYEN mode bit in the MODE1 register. When this mode is

Figure 2. Single-Processor System

<!-- image -->

enabled, the same instruction is executed in both processing elements, but each processing element operates on different data. This architecture is efficient at executing math-intensive DSP algorithms.

Entering SIMD mode also has an effect on the way data is transferred between memory and the processing elements. In SIMD mode, twice the data bandwidth is required to sustain computational operation in the processing elements. Because of this requirement, entering SIMD mode also doubles the bandwidth between memory and the processing elements. When using the DAGs to transfer data in SIMD mode, two data values are transferred with each access of memory or the register file.

## Independent, Parallel Computation Units

Within each processing element is a set of computational units. The computational units consist of an arithmetic/logic unit (ALU), multiplier, and shifter. These units perform single-cycle instructions. The three units within each processing element are arranged in parallel, maximizing computational throughput. Single multifunction instructions execute parallel ALU and multiplier operations. In SIMD mode, the parallel ALU and multiplier operations occur in both processing elements. These computation units support IEEE 32-bit single-precision floating-point, 40-bit extended-precision floating-point, and 32-bit fixed-point data formats.

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

## Data Register File

A general-purpose data register file is contained in each processing element. The register files transfer data between the computation units and the data buses, and store intermediate results. These 10-port, 32-register (16 primary, 16 secondary) register files, combined with the ADSP-2116x enhanced Harvard architecture, allow unconstrained data flow between computation units and internal memory. The registers in PEX are referred to as R0-R15 and in PEY as S0-S15.

## Single-Cycle Fetch of Instruction and Four Operands

The processor features an enhanced Harvard architecture in which the data memory (DM) bus transfers data, and the program memory (PM) bus transfers both instructions and data (see the functional block diagram 1). With the ADSP-21160x DSP's separate program and data memory buses and on-chip instruction cache, the processor can simultaneously fetch four operands and an instruction (from the cache), all in a single cycle.

## Instruction Cache

The ADSP-21160x includes an on-chip instruction cache that enables three-bus operation for fetching an instruction and four data values. The cache is selective-only the instructions whose fetches conflict with PM bus data accesses are cached. This cache allows full-speed execution of core, providing looped operations, such as digital filter multiply- accumulates and FFT butterfly processing.

## Data Address Generators with Hardware Circular Buffers

The ADSP-21160x DSP's two data address generators (DAGs) are used for indirect addressing and provide for implementing circular data buffers in hardware. Circular buffers allow efficient programming of delay lines and other data structures required in digital signal processing, and are commonly used in digital filters and Fourier transforms. The two DAGs of the product contain sufficient registers to allow the creation of up to 32 circular buffers (16 primary register sets, 16 secondary). The DAGs automatically handle address pointer wraparound, reducing overhead, increasing performance, and simplifying implementation. Circular buffers can start and end at any memory location.

## Flexible Instruction Set

The 48-bit instruction word accommodates a variety of parallel operations for concise programming. For example, the processor can conditionally execute a multiply, an add, and subtract, in both processing elements, while branching, all in a single instruction.

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

Figure 3. Shared Memory Multiprocessing System

<!-- image -->

## MEMORY AND I/O INTERFACE FEATURES

Augmenting the ADSP-2116x family core, the ADSP-21160x adds the following architectural features.

## Dual-Ported On-Chip Memory

The ADSP-21160x contains four megabits of on-chip SRAM, organized as two blocks of 2M bits each, which can be configured for different combinations of code and data storage (Figure 4). Each memory block is dual-ported for single-cycle, independent accesses by the core processor and I/O processor. The dual-ported memory in combination with three separate on-chip buses allows two data transfers from the core and one from I/O processor, in a single cycle. The ADSP-21160x memory can be configured as a maximum of 128K words of 32-bit data, 256K words of 16-bit data, 85K words of 48-bit instructions (or 40-bit data), or combinations of different word sizes up to four megabits. All of the memory can be accessed as 16-, 32-, 48-, or 64-bit words. A 16-bit floating-point storage format is supported that effectively doubles the amount of data that may be stored on-chip. Conversion between the 32-bit floating-point and 16-bit floating-point formats is done in a single instruction. While each memory block can store combinations of code and data, accesses are most efficient when one block stores data, using the DM bus for transfers, and the other block stores instructions and data, using the PM bus for transfers. Using the DM bus and PM bus in this way, with one dedicated to each memory block, assures single-cycle execution with two data transfers. In this case, the instruction must be available in the cache.

## Off-Chip Memory and Peripherals Interface

The ADSP-21160x DSP's external port provides the processor's interface to off-chip memory and peripherals. The 4G word offchip address space is included in the processor's unified address space. The separate on-chip buses-for PM addresses, PM data, DM addresses, DM data, I/O addresses, and I/O data-are multiplexed at the external port to create an external system bus with a single 32-bit address bus and a single 64-bit data bus. The lower 32 bits of the external data bus connect to even addresses, and the upper 32 bits of the 64 connect to odd addresses. Every access to external memory is based on an address that fetches a 32-bit word, and with the 64-bit bus, two address locations can be accessed at once. When fetching an instruction from external memory, two 32-bit data locations are being accessed (16 bits are unused). Figure 5 shows the alignment of various accesses to external memory.

The external port supports asynchronous, synchronous, and synchronous burst accesses. ZBT synchronous burst SRAM can be interfaced gluelessly. Addressing of external memory devices is facilitated by on-chip decoding of high-order address lines to generate memory bank select signals. Separate control lines are also generated for simplified addressing of page-mode DRAM. The ADSP-21160x provides programmable memory wait states and external memory acknowledge controls to allow interfacing to DRAM and peripherals with variable access, hold, and disable time requirements.

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

Figure 4. Memory Map

<!-- image -->

## DMA Controller

The ADSP-21160x DSP's on-chip DMA controller allows zerooverhead data transfers without processor intervention. The DMA controller operates independently and invisibly to the processor core, allowing DMA operations to occur while the core is simultaneously executing its program instructions. DMA transfers can occur between the processor's internal memory and external memory, external peripherals, or a host processor. DMA transfers can also occur between the product's DSP's internal memory and its serial ports or link ports. External bus packing to 16-, 32-, 48-, or 64-bit words is performed during DMA transfers. Fourteen channels of DMA are available on the ADSP-21160x-six via the link ports, four via the serial ports, and four via the processor's external port (for either host processor, other ADSP-21160x processors, memory or I/O transfers). Programs can be downloaded to the processor using DMA transfers. Asynchronous off-chip peripherals can control two DMA channels using DMA Request/Grant lines (DMAR1-2, DMAG1-2). Other DMA features include

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

Figure 5. External Data Alignment Options

<!-- image -->

interrupt generation upon completion of DMA transfers, twodimensional DMA, and DMA chaining for automatic linked DMA transfers.

## Multiprocessing

The ADSP-21160x offers powerful features tailored to multiprocessing DSP systems as shown in M. The external port and link ports provide integrated glueless multiprocessing support.

The external port supports a unified address space (see Figure 4) that allows direct interprocessor accesses of each processor's internal memory. Distributed bus arbitration logic is included on-chip for simple, glueless connection of systems containing up to six ADSP-21160x processors and a host processor. Master processor changeover incurs only one cycle of overhead. Bus arbitration is selectable as either fixed or rotating priority. Bus lock allows indivisible read-modify-write sequences for semaphores. A vector interrupt is provided for interprocessor commands. Maximum throughput for interprocessor data transfer is 400M bytes/s (ADSP-21160N) over the external port. Broadcast writes allow simultaneous transmission of data to all ADSP-21160x DSPs and can be used to implement reflective semaphores.

Six link ports provide for a second method of multiprocessing communications. Each link port can support communications to another ADSP-21160x. Using the links, a large multiprocessor system can be constructed in a 2D or 3D fashion. Systems can use the link ports and cluster multiprocessing concurrently or independently.

## Link Ports

The processor features six 8-bit link ports that provide additional I/O capabilities. With the capability of running at 100 MHz rates, each link port can support 100M bytes/s

(ADSP-21160N). Link port I/O is especially useful for point-topoint interprocessor communication in multiprocessing systems. The link ports can operate independently and simultaneously. Link port data is packed into 48- or 32-bit words, and can be directly read by the core processor or DMAtransferred to on-chip memory. Each link port has its own double-buffered input and output registers. Clock/acknowledge handshaking controls link port transfers. Transfers are programmable as transmit or receive.

## Serial Ports

The processor features two synchronous serial ports that provide an inexpensive interface to a wide variety of digital and mixed-signal peripheral devices. The serial ports can operate up to half the clock rate of the core, providing each with a maximum data rate of 50M bits/s (ADSP-21160N). Independent transmit and receive functions provide greater flexibility for serial communications. Serial port data can be automatically transferred to and from on-chip memory via a dedicated DMA. Each of the serial ports offers a TDM multichannel mode. The serial ports can operate with little-endian or big-endian transmission formats, with word lengths selectable from 3 bits to 32 bits. They offer selectable synchronization and transmit modes as well as optional µ-law or A-law companding. Serial port clocks and frame syncs can be generated internally or externally.

## Host Processor Interface

The ADSP-21160x host interface allows easy connection to standard microprocessor buses, both 16- and 32-bit, with little additional hardware required. The host interface is accessed through the ADSP-21160x DSP's external port and is memorymapped into the unified address space. Four channels of DMA are available for the host interface; code and data transfers are accomplished with low software overhead. The host processor communicates with the ADSP-21160x DSP's external bus with host bus request (HBR), host bus grant (HBG), ready (REDY), acknowledge (ACK), and chip select (CS) signals. The host can directly read and write the internal memory of the processor, and can access the DMA channel setup and mailbox registers. Vector interrupt support provides efficient execution of host commands.

The host processor interface can be used in either multiprocessor or uniprocessor systems. For multiprocessor systems, host access to the SHARC requires that address pins ADDR17, ADDR18, ADDR19, and ADDR20 be driven low. It is not enough to tie these pins to ground through a resistor (for example, 10 k  ). These pins must be driven low with a strong enough drive strength (10  to 50  ) to overcome the SHARC keeper latches present on these pins. If the drive strength provided is not strong enough, data access failures can occur.

For uniprocessor SHARC systems using this host access feature, address pins ADDR17, ADDR18, ADDR19, and ADDR20 may be tied low (for example, through a 10 k  ohm resistor), driven low by a buffer/driver, or left floating. Any of these options is sufficient.

## Program Booting

The internal memory of the ADSP-21160x can be booted at system power-up from an 8-bit EPROM, a host processor, or through one of the link ports. Selection of the boot source is controlled by the BMS (Boot Memory Select), EBOOT (EPROM Boot), and LBOOT (Link/Host Boot) pins. 32-bit and 16-bit host processors can be used for booting.

## Phase-Locked Loop

The processor uses an on-chip PLL to generate the internal clock for the core. Ratios of 2:1, 3:1, and 4:1 between the core and CLKIN are supported. The CLK\_CFG pins are used to select the ratio. The CLKIN rate is the rate at which the synchronous external port operates.

## Power Supplies

The processor has separate power supply connections for the internal (VDDINT), external (VDDEXT), and analog (AVDD and AGND) power supplies. The internal and analog supplies must meet the VDDINT and AVDD requirement. The external supply must meet the 3.3 V requirement. All external supply pins must be connected to the same supply.

The PLL filter, Figure 6, must be added for each ADSP-21160x in the system. VDDINT is the digital core supply. It is recommended that the capacitors be connected directly to AGND using short thick trace. It is recommended that the capacitors be placed as close to AVDD and AGND as possible. The connection from AGND to the (digital) ground plane should be made after the capacitors. The use of a thick trace for AGND is reasonable only because the PLL is a relatively low power circuit-it does not apply to any other ADSP-21160x GND connection.

Figure 6. Analog Power (AVDD) Filter Circuit

<!-- image -->

## DEVELOPMENT TOOLS

Analog Devices supports its processors with a complete line of software and hardware development tools, including integrated development environments (which include CrossCore ® Embedded Studio and/or VisualDSP++ ® ), evaluation products, emulators, and a wide variety of software add-ins.

## Integrated Development Environments (IDEs)

For C/C++ software writing and editing, code generation, and debug support, Analog Devices offers two IDEs.

The newest IDE, CrossCore Embedded Studio, is based on the Eclipse TM framework. Supporting most Analog Devices processor families, it is the IDE of choice for future processors, including multicore devices. CrossCore Embedded Studio

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

seamlessly integrates available software add-ins to support real time operating systems, file systems, TCP/IP stacks, USB stacks, algorithmic software modules, and evaluation hardware board support packages. For more information visit www.analog.com/cces.

The other Analog Devices IDE, VisualDSP++, supports processor families introduced prior to the release of CrossCore Embedded Studio. This IDE includes the Analog Devices VDK real time operating system and an open source TCP/IP stack. For more information visit www.analog.com/visualdsp. Note that VisualDSP++ will not support future Analog Devices processors.

## EZ-KIT Lite Evaluation Board

For processor evaluation, Analog Devices provides wide range of EZ-KIT Lite ® evaluation boards. Including the processor and key peripherals, the evaluation board also supports on-chip emulation capabilities and other evaluation and development features. Also available are various EZ-Extenders ® , which are daughter cards delivering additional specialized functionality, including audio and video processing. For more information visit www.analog.com and search on 'ezkit' or 'ezextender'.

## EZ-KIT Lite Evaluation Kits

For a cost-effective way to learn more about developing with Analog Devices processors, Analog Devices offer a range of EZKIT Lite evaluation kits. Each evaluation kit includes an EZ-KIT Lite evaluation board, directions for downloading an evaluation version of the available IDE(s), a USB cable, and a power supply. The USB controller on the EZ-KIT Lite board connects to the USB port of the user's PC, enabling the chosen IDE evaluation suite to emulate the on-board processor in-circuit. This permits the customer to download, execute, and debug programs for the EZ-KIT Lite system. It also supports in-circuit programming of the on-board Flash device to store user-specific boot code, enabling standalone operation. With the full version of CrossCore Embedded Studio or VisualDSP++ installed (sold separately), engineers can develop software for supported EZKITs or any custom system utilizing supported Analog Devices processors.

## Software Add-Ins for CrossCore Embedded Studio

Analog Devices offers software add-ins which seamlessly integrate with CrossCore Embedded Studio to extend its capabilities and reduce development time. Add-ins include board support packages for evaluation hardware, various middleware packages, and algorithmic modules. Documentation, help, configuration dialogs, and coding examples present in these add-ins are viewable through the CrossCore Embedded Studio IDE once the add-in is installed.

## Board Support Packages for Evaluation Hardware

Software support for the EZ-KIT Lite evaluation boards and EZExtender daughter cards is provided by software add-ins called Board Support Packages (BSPs). The BSPs contain the required drivers, pertinent release notes, and select example code for the given evaluation hardware. A download link for a specific BSP is

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

located on the web page for the associated EZ-KIT or EZExtender product. The link is found in the Product Download area of the product web page.

## Middleware Packages

Analog Devices separately offers middleware add-ins such as real time operating systems, file systems, USB stacks, and TCP/IP stacks. For more information, see the following web pages:

- www.analog.com/ucos3
- www.analog.com/ucfs
- www.analog.com/ucusbd
- www.analog.com/lwip

## Algorithmic Modules

To speed development, Analog Devices offers add-ins that perform popular audio and video processing algorithms. These are available for use with both CrossCore Embedded Studio and VisualDSP++. For more information visit www.analog.com and search on 'Blackfin software modules' or 'SHARC software modules'.

## Designing an Emulator-Compatible DSP Board (Target)

For embedded system test and debug, Analog Devices provides a family of emulators. On each JTAG DSP, Analog Devices supplies an IEEE 1149.1 JTAG Test Access Port (TAP). In-circuit emulation is facilitated by use of this JTAG interface. The emulator accesses the processor's internal features via the processor's TAP, allowing the developer to load code, set breakpoints, and view variables, memory, and registers. The processor must be halted to send data and commands, but once an operation is completed by the emulator, the DSP system is set to run at full speed with no impact on system timing. The emulators require the target board to include a header that supports connection of the DSP's JTAG port to the emulator.

For details on target board design issues including mechanical layout, single processor connections, signal buffering, signal termination, and emulator pod logic, see the application note (EE-68) 'Analog Devices JTAG Emulation Technical Reference' (www.analog.com/ee-68). This document is updated regularly to keep pace with improvements to emulator support.

## ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

This data sheet provides a general overview of the ADSP-21160x architecture and functionality. For detailed information on the Blackfin family core architecture and instruction set, refer to the ADSP-21160 SHARC DSP Hardware Reference and the ADSP-21160 SHARC DSP Instruction Set Reference . For detailed information on the development tools for this processor, see the VisualDSP++ User's Guide .

## RELATED SIGNAL CHAINS

A signal chain is a series of signal conditioning electronic components that receive input (data acquired from sampling either real-time phenomena or from stored data) in tandem, with the output of one portion of the chain supplying input to the next.

Signal chains are often used in signal processing applications to gather and process data or to apply system controls based on analysis of real-time phenomena.

Analog Devices eases signal processing system development by providing signal processing components that are designed to work together well. A tool for viewing relationships between specific applications and related components is available on the www.analog.com website.

The application signal chains page in the Circuits from the Lab ® site (http:\\www.analog.com\circuits) provides:

- Graphical circuit block diagram presentation of signal chains for a variety of circuit types and applications
- Drill down links for components in each chain to selection guides and application information
- Reference designs applying best practice design techniques

## PIN FUNCTION DESCRIPTIONS

ADSP-21160x pin definitions are listed below. Inputs identified as synchronous (S) must meet timing requirements with respect to CLKIN (or with respect to TCK for TMS, TDI). Inputs identified as asynchronous (A) can be asserted asynchronously to CLKIN (or to TCK for TRST).

Tie or pull unused inputs to VDD or GND, except for the following:

- ADDR31-0, DATA63-0, PAGE, BRST, CLKOUT (ID2-0 = 00x) (Note: These pins have a logic-level hold circuit enabled on the ADSP-21160x DSP with ID2-0 = 00x.)
- PA, ACK, MS3-0, RDx, WRx, CIF, DMARx, DMAGx (ID2-0 = 00x) (Note: These pins have a pull-up enabled on the ADSP-21160x with ID2-0 = 00x.)

## Table 3. Pin Function Descriptions

| Pin      | Type   | Function                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|----------|--------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ADDR31-0 | I/O/T  | External Bus Address. The ADSP-21160x outputs addresses for external memory and peripherals on these pins. In a multiprocessor system, the bus master outputs addresses for read/writes of the internal memory or IOP registers of other ADSP-21160x DSPs. The ADSP-21160x inputs addresses when a host processor or multiprocessing bus master is reading or writing its internal memory or IOP registers. A keeper latch on the DSP's ADDR31-0 pins maintains the input at the level it was last driven (only enabled on the processor with ID2-0 = 00x).            |
| DATA63-0 | I/O/T  | External Bus Data. The ADSP-21160x inputs and outputs data and instructions on these pins. Pull- up resistors on unused DATA pins are not necessary. A keeper latch on the DSP's DATA63-0 pins maintains the input at the level it waslast driven (only enabled ontheprocessor with ID2-0 = 00x).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| MS3-0    | O/T    | MemorySelectLines. These outputs are asserted (low) as chip selects for the corresponding banks ofexternalmemory.MemorybanksizemustbedefinedintheSYSCONcontrolregister.TheMS3-0 outputs are decoded memory address lines. In asynchronous access mode, the MS3-0 outputs transitionwiththeotheraddressoutputs.Insynchronousaccessmodes,theMS3-0outputsassert with the other address lines; however, they deassert after the first CLKIN cycle in which ACK is sampled asserted.MS3-0hasa20k  internal pull-up resistorthatisenabledontheADSP-21160x with ID2-0 = 00x. |
| RDL      | I/O/T  | Memory Read Low Strobe. RDL is asserted whenever ADSP-21160x reads from the low word of external memory or from the internal memory of other ADSP-21160x DSPs. External devices, including other ADSP-21160x DSPs, must assert RDL for reading from the low word of processor internal memory. In a multiprocessing system, RDL is driven by the bus master. RDL has a 20 k  internal pull-up resistor that is enabled on the processor with ID2-0 = 00x.                                                                                                             |
| RDH      | I/O/T  | Memory Read High Strobe. RDH is asserted whenever ADSP-21160x reads from the high word of external memory or from the internal memory of other ADSP-21160x DSPs. External devices, including other ADSP-21160x DSPs, must assert RDHfor reading from the high word of ADSP-21160x internal memory. In a multiprocessing system, RDH is driven by the bus master. RDH has a 20 k  internal pull-up resistor that is enabled on the processor with ID2-0 = 00x.                                                                                                         |
| WRL      | I/O/T  | MemoryWrite Low Strobe. WRLis asserted whenADSP-21160x writes to the low word of external memory or internal memory of other ADSP-21160x DSPs. External devices must assert WRL for writing to ADSP-21160x DSP's low word of internal memory. In a multiprocessing system, WRLis drivenbythebusmaster.WRLhasa20k  internal pull-up resistor that isenabledontheprocessor with ID2-0 = 00x.                                                                                                                                                                            |
| WRH      | I/O/T  | MemoryWriteHighStrobe.WRHisassertedwhenADSP-21160xwritestothehighwordofexternal memory or internal memory of other ADSP-21160x DSPs. External devices must assert WRHfor writing to ADSP-21160x DSP's high word of internal memory. In a multiprocessing system, WRHis drivenbythebusmaster.WRHhasa20k  internalpull-upresistorthatisenabledontheprocessor with ID2-0 = 00x.                                                                                                                                                                                          |

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

- LxCLK, LxACK, LxDAT7-0 (LxPDRDE = 0) (Note: See Link Port Buffer Control Register Bit definitions in the ADSP-21160 SHARC DSP Hardware Reference .)
- DTx, DRx, TCLKx, RCLKx, EMU, TMS, TRST, TDI (Note: These pins have a pull-up.)

The following symbols appear in the Type column of Table 3: A=Asynchronous, G = Ground, I = Input, O = Output, P = Power Supply, S = Synchronous, (A/D) = Active Drive, (O/D) = Open Drain, and T = Three-State (when SBTS is asserted, or when the ADSP-21160x is a bus slave).

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

Table 3. Pin Function Descriptions  (Continued)

| Pin     | Type   | Function                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|---------|--------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| PAGE    | O/T    | DRAMPageBoundary.Theprocessor asserts this pin to anexternal DRAMcontroller, to signal that an external DRAMpage boundary has been crossed. DRAMpage size must be defined in the processor's memorycontrol register (WAIT). DRAMcanonlybeimplemented in externalmemory Bank0;thePAGEsignalcanonlybeactivatedforBank0accesses.Inamultiprocessingsystem,PAGE is output bythebusmaster. Akeeperlatch ontheDSP's PAGEpinmaintains the output at the level it was last driven (only enabled on the processor with ID2-0 = 00x).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| BRST    | I/O/T  | SequentialBurstAccess.BRSTisassertedbyADSP-21160xorahosttoindicatethatdataassociated with consecutive addresses is being read or written. Aslave device samples the initial address and increments an internal address counter after each transfer. The incremented address is not pipelined on the bus. If the burst access is a read from the host to the processor, the processor automatically increments the address as long as BRST is asserted. BRST is asserted after the initial access of a burst transfer. It is asserted for every cycle after that, except for the last data request cycle (denoted by RDx or WRx asserted and BRST negated). A keeper latch on the DSP's BRST pin maintains the input at the level it was last driven (only enabled on the processor with ID2-0 = 00x). |
| ACK     | I/O/S  | Memory Acknowledge. External devices can deassert ACK (low) to add wait states to an external memory access. ACK is used by I/O devices, memory controllers, or other peripherals to hold off completion of an external memory access. The ADSP-21160x deasserts ACK as an output to add wait states to a synchronous access of its internal memory, by a synchronous host or another DSP in a multiprocessor configuration. ACK has a 2 k  internal pull-up resistor that is enabled on the processor with ID2-0 = 00x.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| SBTS    | I/S    | Suspend Bus and Three-State. External devices can assert SBTS (low) to place the external bus address, data, selects, and strobes in a high-impedance state for the following cycle. If the ADSP-21160x attempts to access external memory while SBTS is asserted, the processor will halt and the memory access will not be completed until SBTS is deasserted. SBTS should only be used to recover from host processor and/or ADSP-21160x deadlock or used with a DRAMcontroller.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| IRQ2-0  | I/A    | Interrupt Request Lines. These are sampled on the rising edge of CLKIN and may be either edge- triggered or level-sensitive.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| FLAG3-0 | I/O/A  | FlagPins.Eachisconfiguredviacontrolbitsaseitheraninputoroutput.Asaninput,itcanbetested as a condition. As an output, it can be used to signal external peripherals.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| TIMEXP  | O      | Timer Expired. Asserted for four processor core clock (CCLK) cycles whenthe timer is enabled and TCOUNT decrements to zero.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| HBR     | I/A    | Host Bus Request. Must be asserted by a host processor to request control of the ADSP-21160x DSP's external bus. WhenHBRisassertedinamultiprocessing system, the processor thatisbusmasterwillrelinquishthebusandassertHBG.Torelinquishthebus,theprocessorplaces the address, data, select, and strobe lines in a high-impedance state. HBR has priority over all processor bus requests (BR6-1) in a multiprocessing system.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| HBG     | I/O    | Host Bus Grant. Acknowledges an HBR bus request, indicating that the host processor may take control of the external bus.HBGis asserted (held low) bythe ADSP-21160x until HBRis released. In amultiprocessingsystem,HBGisoutputbytheprocessorbusmasterandismonitoredbyallothers. After HBR is asserted, and before HBG is given, HBG will float for 1 t CLK (1CLKINcycle).Toavoiderroneousgrants,HBGshouldbepulledupwitha20k  to50k  external resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| CS      | I/A    | Chip Select. Asserted by host processor to select the ADSP-21160x, for asynchronous transfer protocol.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| REDY    | O(O/D) | Host Bus Acknowledge. The ADSP-21160x deasserts REDY (low) to add wait states to an asynchronous host access when CS and HBR inputs are asserted.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| DMAR1   | I/A    | DMARequest 1 (DMA Channel 11). Asserted by external port devices to request DMAservices. DMAR1hasa20k  internal pull-up resistor that is enabled onthe ADSP-21160x with ID2-0 = 00x.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| DMAR2   | I/A    | DMARequest 2 (DMA Channel 12). Asserted by external port devices to request DMAservices. DMAR2hasa20k  internal pull-up resistor that is enabled onthe ADSP-21160x with ID2-0 = 00x.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |

Table 3. Pin Function Descriptions  (Continued)

| Pin        | Type   | Function                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|------------|--------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ID2-0      | I      | Multiprocessing ID. Determines which multiprocessing bus request (BR1-BR6) is used by the ADSP-21160x. ID = 001 corresponds to BR1, ID = 010 corresponds to BR2, and so on. Use ID = 000 or ID = 001 in single-processor systems. These lines are a system configuration selection which should be hardwired or only changed at reset.                                                                                      |
| DMAG1      | O/T    | DMAGrant 1 (DMA Channel 11). Asserted by ADSP-21160x to indicate that the requestedDMA starts on the next cycle. Driven by bus master only. DMAG1has a 20 k  internal pull-up resistor that is enabled on the ADSP-21160x with ID2-0 = 00x.                                                                                                                                                                                |
| DMAG2      | O/T    | DMAGrant 2 (DMA Channel 12). Asserted by ADSP-21160x to indicate that the requestedDMA starts on the next cycle. Driven by bus master only. DMAG2has a 20 k  internal pull-up resistor that is enabled on the ADSP-21160x with ID2-0 = 00x.                                                                                                                                                                                |
| BR6-1      | I/O/S  | Multiprocessing Bus Requests. Used by multiprocessing ADSP-21160x DSPs to arbitrate for bus mastership. An ADSP-21160x only drives its ownBRx line (corresponding to the value of its ID2-0 inputs) and monitors all others. In a multiprocessor system with less than six ADSP-21160x DSPs, the unused BRx pins should be pulled high; the processor'sown BRx line must not be pulled high or low because it is an output. |
| RPBA       | I/S    | Rotating PriorityBusArbitrationSelect.WhenRPBAishigh,rotatingpriorityformultiprocessorbus arbitration is selected. When RPBA is low, fixed priority is selected. This signal is a system configu- ration selection which must be set to the same value on every ADSP-21160x. If the value of RPBA is changed during system operation, it must be changed in the same CLKIN cycle on every processor.                        |
| PA         | I/O/T  | PriorityAccess.AssertingitsPApinallowsanADSP-21160xbusslavetointerruptbackgroundDMA transfersandgainaccesstotheexternalbus.PAisconnectedtoallADSP-21160xDSPsinthesystem. If access priority is not required in a system, the PA pin should be left unconnected. PA has a 20 k  internal pull-up resistor that is enabled on the ADSP-21160x with ID2-0 = 00x.                                                              |
| DTx        | O      | Data Transmit (Serial Ports 0, 1). Each DT pin has a 50 k  internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| DRx        | I      | Data Receive (Serial Ports 0, 1). Each DR pin has a 50 k  internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| TCLKx      | I/O    | Transmit Clock (Serial Ports 0, 1). Each TCLK pin has a 50 k  internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| RCLKx      | I/O    | Receive Clock (Serial Ports 0, 1). Each RCLK pin has a 50 k  internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| TFSx       | I/O    | Transmit Frame Sync (Serial Ports 0, 1).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| RFSx       | I/O    | Receive Frame Sync (Serial Ports 0, 1).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| LxDAT7-0   | I/O    | Link Port Data (Link Ports 0-5). Each LxDAT pin has a 50 k  internal pull-down resistor that is enabled or disabled by the LPDRD bit of the LCTL0-1 register.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| LxCLK      | I/O    | Link Port Clock (Link Ports 0-5). Each LxCLK pin has a 50 k  internal pull-down resistor that is enabled or disabled by the LPDRD bit of the LCTL0-1 register.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| LxACK      | I/O    | Link Port Acknowledge (Link Ports 0-5). Each LxACK pin has a 50 k  internal pull-down resistor that is enabled or disabled by the LPDRD bit of theLCOM register.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| EBOOT      | I      | EPROM Boot Select. For a description of how this pin operates, see Table 4. This signal is a system configuration selection that should be hardwired.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| LBOOT      | I      | Link Boot. For a description of how this pin operates, see Table 4. This signal is a system configu- ration selection that should be hardwired.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| BMS        | I/O/T  | Boot MemorySelect.ServesasanoutputorinputasselectedwiththeEBOOTandLBOOTpins;see Table 4. This input is a system configuration selection that should be hardwired.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| CLKIN      | I      | Local Clock In. CLKIN is the ADSP-21160x clock input. The ADSP-21160x external port cycles at the frequency of CLKIN. The instruction cycle rate is a multiple of the CLKIN frequency; it is program- mableatpower-up.CLKINmaynotbehalted,changed,oroperatedbelowthespecifiedfrequency.                                                                                                                                     |
| CLK_CFG3-0 | I      | Core/CLKIN Ratio Control. ADSP-21160x core clock (instruction cycle) rate is equal to n x CLKIN wherenisuser-selectableto2,3,or4,usingtheCLK_CFG3-0 inputs. For clock configuration defini- tions, see the RESET &CLKIN section of the System Design chapter of the ADSP-21160SHARCDSP Hardware Reference .                                                                                                                 |

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

Table 3. Pin Function Descriptions  (Continued)

| Pin     | Type   | Function                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|---------|--------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| CLKOUT  | O/T    | Local Clock Out. CLKOUT is driven at the CLKIN frequency by the processor. This output can be three-stated by setting the COD bit in the SYSCON register. A keeper latch on the DSP's CLKOUT pin maintains the output at the level it was last driven (only enabled on the processor with ID2-0 = 00x). Do not use CLKOUT in multiprocessing systems; use CLKIN instead. |
| RESET   | I/A    | Processor Reset. Resets the ADSP-21160x to a known state and begins execution at the program memorylocationspecifiedbythehardwareresetvectoraddress.TheRESETinputmustbeasserted (low) at power-up.                                                                                                                                                                       |
| TCK     | I      | Test Clock (JTAG). Provides a clock for JTAG boundary scan.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| TMS     | I/S    | Test Mode Select (JTAG). Used to control the test state machine. TMS has a 20 k  internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| TDI     | I/S    | Test Data Input (JTAG). Provides serial data for the boundary scan logic. TDI has a 20 k  internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| TDO     | O      | Test Data Output (JTAG). Serial scan output of the boundary scan path.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| TRST    | I/A    | Test Reset (JTAG). Resets the test state machine. TRST must be asserted (pulsed low) after power- uporheld low for proper operation of the ADSP-21160x. TRST has a 20 k  internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                     |
| EMU     | O(O/D) | Emulation Status. Must be connected to the ADSP-21160x emulator target board connector only. EMUhas a 50 k  internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| CIF     | O/T    | Core Instruction Fetch. Signal is active lowwhenanexternalinstruction fetch is performed. Driven by bus master only. Three-state when host is bus master. CIF has a 20 k  internal pull-up resistor that is enabled on the ADSP-21160x with ID2-0 = 00x.                                                                                                                |
| V DDINT | P      | Core Power Supply. Nominally 2.5 V (ADSP-21160M) or 1.9 V (ADSP-21160N) dc and supplies the DSP's core processor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| V DDEXT | P      | I/O Power Supply. Nominally 3.3 V dc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| AV DD   | P      | AnalogPowerSupply.Nominally2.5V(ADSP-21160M)or1.9 V(ADSP-21160N)dcandsuppliesthe DSP'sinternalPLL(clockgenerator).ThispinhasthesamespecificationsasV DDINT ,exceptthatadded filtering circuitry is required. For more information, see Power Supplies on page 9.                                                                                                         |
| AGND    | G      | Analog Power Supply Return.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| GND     | G      | Power Supply Return.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |

## Table 4. Boot Mode Selection

|   EBOOT |   LBOOT | BMS       | BootingMode                                          |
|---------|---------|-----------|------------------------------------------------------|
|       1 |       0 | Output    | EPROM (Connect BMS to EPROM chip select.)            |
|       0 |       0 | 1 (Input) | Host Processor                                       |
|       0 |       1 | 1 (Input) | Link Port                                            |
|       0 |       0 | 0 (Input) | No Booting. Processor executes from external memory. |
|       0 |       1 | 0 (Input) | Reserved                                             |
|       1 |       1 | x (Input) | Reserved                                             |

## SPECIFICATIONS

## OPERATING CONDITIONS-ADSP-21160M

Table 5 shows the recommended operating conditions for the ADSP-21160M. Specifications are subject to change without notice.

Table 5. Operating Conditions-ADSP-21160M

| Parameter   |                                             |   Min | KGrade Max   | Unit   |
|-------------|---------------------------------------------|-------|--------------|--------|
| V DDINT     | Internal (Core) Supply Voltage              |  2.37 | 2.63         | V      |
| AV DD       | Analog (PLL) Supply Voltage                 |  2.37 | 2.63         | V      |
| V DDEXT     | External (I/O) Supply Voltage               |  3.13 | 3.47         | V      |
| T CASE      | Case Operating Temperature 1                |  0    | 85           | ºC     |
| V IH1       | High Level Input Voltage, 2 @V DDEXT =Max   |  2.2  | V DDEXT +0.5 | V      |
| V IH2       | High Level Input Voltage, 3 @V DDEXT =Max   |  2.3  | V DDEXT +0.5 | V      |
| V IL        | Low Level Input Voltage ,2, 3 @V DDEXT =Min | -0.5  | +0.8         | V      |

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

## ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS-ADSP-21160M

Table 6 shows ADSP-21160M electrical characteristics. These specifications are subject to change without notification.

Table 6. Electrical Characteristics-ADSP-21160M

| Parameter   | Test Conditions                                                       | Min                      | Max   | Unit   |
|-------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------|-------|--------|
| V OH        | High Level Output Voltage 1 @V DDEXT                                  | =Min, I OH =-2.0mA 2 2.4 |       | V      |
| V OL        | Low Level Output Voltage 1 @V DDEXT                                   | =Min, I OL =4.0mA 2      | 0.4   | V      |
| I IH        | High Level Input Current 3, 4, 5 @V DDEXT                             | =Max, V IN =V DD Max     | 10    | µA     |
| I IL        | Low Level Input Current 3 @V DDEXT =Max, V                            | IN =0 V                  | 10    | µA     |
| I ILPU1     | Low Level Input Current Pull-Up1 4 @V DDEXT =Max, V IN =0 V           |                          | 250   | µA     |
| I ILPU2     | Low Level Input Current Pull-Up2 5 @V DDEXT =Max, V IN =0 V           |                          | 500   | µA     |
| I OZH       | Three-State Leakage Current 6, 7, 8, 9 @V DDEXT =Max, V IN =V DD Max  |                          | 10    | µA     |
| I OZL       | Three-State Leakage Current 6 @V DDEXT =Max, V IN =0 V                |                          | 10    | µA     |
| I OZHPD     | Three-State Leakage Current Pull-Down 9 @V DDEXT =Max, V IN =V DD Max |                          | 250   | µA     |
| I OZLPU1    | Three-State Leakage Current Pull-Up1 7 @V DDEXT =Max, V IN =0 V       |                          | 250   | µA     |
| I OZLPU2    | Three-State Leakage Current Pull-Up2 8 @V DDEXT =Max, V IN =0 V       |                          | 500   | µA     |
| I OZHA      | Three-State Leakage Current 10 @V DDEXT =Max, V IN =V DD              | Max                      | 25    | µA     |
| I OZLA      | Three-State Leakage Current 10 @V DDEXT =Max, V IN =0 V               |                          | 4     | mA     |
| I DD-INPEAK | Supply Current (Internal) 11 t CCLK =12.5                             | ns, V DDINT =Max         | 1400  | mA     |
| I DD-INHIGH | Supply Current (Internal) 12 t CCLK =12.5 ns, V DDINT =Max            |                          | 875   | mA     |
| I DD-INLOW  | Supply Current (Internal) 13 t CCLK                                   | =12.5 ns, V DDINT =Max   | 625   | mA     |
| I DD-IDLE   | Supply Current (Idle) 14 t CCLK =12.5 ns, V DDINT =Max                |                          | 400   | mA     |
| AI DD       | Supply Current (Analog) 15 @AV DD                                     | =Max                     | 10    | mA     |
| C IN        | Input Capacitance 16, 17 f IN =1 MHz, T CASE =25°C, V IN =2.5         | V                        | 4.7   | pF     |

## OPERATING CONDITIONS-ADSP-21160N

Table 7 shows recommended operating conditions for the ADSP-21160N. These specifications are subject to change without notice.

Table 7. Operating Conditions-ADSP-21160N

| Parameter   |                                             | Min   | C Grade Max   |   Min | KGrade Max   | Unit   |
|-------------|---------------------------------------------|-------|---------------|-------|--------------|--------|
| V DDINT     | Internal (Core) Supply Voltage              | 1.8   | 2.0           |  1.8  | 2.0          | V      |
| AV DD       | Analog (PLL) Supply Voltage                 | 1.8   | 2.0           |  1.8  | 2.0          | V      |
| V DDEXT     | External (I/O) Supply Voltage               | 3.13  | 3.47          |  3.13 | 3.47         | V      |
| T CASE      | Case Operating Temperature 1                | - 40  | +100          |  0    | 85           | ºC     |
| V IH1       | High Level Input Voltage, 2 @V DDEXT =Max   | 2.0   | V DDEXT +0.5  |  2    | V DDEXT +0.5 | V      |
| V IH2       | High Level Input Voltage, 3 @V DDEXT =Max   | 2.0   | V DDEXT +0.5  |  2    | V DDEXT +0.5 | V      |
| V IL        | Low Level Input Voltage ,2, 3 @V DDEXT =Min | -0.5  | +0.8          | -0.5  | +0.8         | V      |

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

## ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS-ADSP-21160N

Table 8 shows the electrical characteristics. Note that these specifications are subject to change without notification.

Table 8. Electrical Characteristics-ADSP-21160N

| Parameter   |                                            | Test Conditions                        | Min   | Max   | Unit   |
|-------------|--------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|-------|-------|--------|
| V OH        | High Level Output Voltage 1                | @V DDEXT =Min, I OH =-2.0mA 2          | 2.4   |       | V      |
| V OL        | Low Level Output Voltage 1                 | @V DDEXT =Min, I OL =4.0mA 2           |       | 0.4   | V      |
| I IH        | High Level Input Current 3, 4, 5           | @V DDEXT =Max, V IN =V DD Max          |       | 10    | µA     |
| I IL        | Low Level Input Current 3                  | @V DDEXT =Max, V IN =0 V               |       | 10    | µA     |
| I IHC       | CLKIN High Level Input Current 6           | @V DDEXT = Max, V IN = V DDEXT Max     |       | 25    | µA     |
| I ILC       | CLKIN Low Level Input Current 6            | @V DDEXT = Max, V IN = 0 V             |       | 25    | µA     |
| I IKH       | Keeper High Load Current 7                 | @V DDEXT = Max, V IN = 2.0 V           | -250  | -50   | µA     |
| I IKL       | Keeper Low Load Current 7                  | @V DDEXT = Max, V IN = 0.8 V           | 50    | 200   | µA     |
| I IKH-OD    | Keeper High Overdrive Current 7, 8, 9      | @V DDEXT = Max                         | -300  |       | µA     |
| I IKL-OD    | Keeper Low Overdrive Current 7, 8, 9       | @V DDEXT = Max                         | 300   |       | µA     |
| I ILPU1     | Low Level Input Current Pull-Up1 4         | @V DDEXT =Max, V IN =0 V               |       | 250   | µA     |
| I ILPU2     | Low Level Input Current Pull-Up2 5         | @V DDEXT =Max, V IN =0 V               |       | 500   | µA     |
| I OZH       | Three-State Leakage Current 10, 11, 12, 13 | @V DDEXT =Max, V IN =V DD Max          |       | 10    | µA     |
| I OZL       | Three-State Leakage Current 10             | @V DDEXT =Max, V IN =0 V               |       | 10    | µA     |
| I OZHPD     | Three-State Leakage Current Pull-Down 13   | @V DDEXT =Max, V IN =V DD Max          |       | 250   | µA     |
| I OZLPU1    | Three-State Leakage Current Pull-Up1 11    | @V DDEXT =Max, V IN =0 V               |       | 250   | µA     |
| I OZLPU2    | Three-State Leakage Current Pull-Up2 12    | @V DDEXT =Max, V IN =0 V               |       | 500   | µA     |
| I OZHA      | Three-State Leakage Current 14             | @V DDEXT =Max, V IN =V DD Max          |       | 25    | µA     |
| I OZLA      | Three-State Leakage Current 14             | @V DDEXT =Max, V IN =0 V               |       | 4     | mA     |
| I DD-INPEAK | Supply Current (Internal) 15               | t CCLK =10.0 ns, V DDINT =Max          |       | 960   | mA     |
| I DD-INHIGH | Supply Current (Internal) 16               | t CCLK =10.0 ns, V DDINT =Max          |       | 715   | mA     |
| I DD-INLOW  | Supply Current (Internal) 17               | t CCLK =10.0 ns, V DDINT =Max          |       | 550   | mA     |
| I DD-IDLE   | Supply Current (Idle) 18                   | t CCLK =10.0 ns, V DDINT =Max          |       | 450   | mA     |
| AI DD       | Supply Current (Analog) 9                  | @AV DD =Max                            |       | 10    | mA     |
| C IN        | Input Capacitance 19, 20                   | f IN =1 MHz, T CASE =25°C, V IN =2.5 V |       | 4.7   | pF     |

## ABSOLUTE MAXIMUM RATINGS

Stresses at or above those listed in Table 9 (ADSP-21160M) and Table 10 (ADSP-21160N) may cause permanent damage to the product. These are stress ratings only; functional operation of the product at these or any other conditions above those indicated in the operational section of this specification is not implied. Operation beyond the maximum operating conditions for extended periods may affect product reliability.

Table 9. Absolute Maximum Ratings-ADSP-21160M

| Parameter                                 | Rating                    |
|-------------------------------------------|---------------------------|
| Internal (Core) Supply Voltage (V DDINT ) | -0.3 V to +3.0 V          |
| Analog (PLL) Supply Voltage (A VDD )      | -0.3 V to +3.0 V          |
| External (I/O) Supply Voltage (V DDEXT )  | -0.3 V to +4.6 V          |
| Input Voltage                             | -0.5 V to V DDEXT + 0.5 V |
| Output Voltage Swing                      | -0.5 V to V DDEXT + 0.5 V |
| Load Capacitance                          | 200 pF                    |
| Storage Temperature Range                 | -65  C to +150  C       |

Table 10. Absolute Maximum Ratings-ADSP-21160N

| Parameter                                 | Rating                    |
|-------------------------------------------|---------------------------|
| Internal (Core) Supply Voltage (V DDINT ) | -0.3 V to +2.3 V          |
| Analog (PLL) Supply Voltage (A VDD )      | -0.3 V to +2.3 V          |
| External (I/O) Supply Voltage (V DDEXT )  | -0.3 V to +4.6 V          |
| Input Voltage                             | -0.5 V to V DDEXT + 0.5 V |
| Output Voltage Swing                      | -0.5 V to V DDEXT + 0.5 V |
| Load Capacitance                          | 200 pF                    |
| Storage Temperature Range                 | -65  C to +150  C       |

## ESD SENSITIVITY

<!-- image -->

## ESD (electrostatic discharge sensitive device)

Charged devices and circuit boards can discharge without detection. Although this product features patented or proprietary protection circuitry, damage may occur on devices subjected to high energy ESD. Therefore, proper ESD precautions should be taken to avoid performance degradation or loss of functionality.

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

## PACKAGE INFORMATION

The information presented in Figure 7 provides details about the package branding for the ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N processor. For a complete listing of product availability, see Ordering Guide on Page 58.

Figure 7. Typical Package Brand

<!-- image -->

## Table 11. Package Brand Information

| Brand Key   | Field Description          |
|-------------|----------------------------|
| a           | ADSP-21160 Model (M or N)  |
| t           | Temperature Range          |
| pp          | Package Type               |
| Z           | RoHS Compliant Designation |
| cc          | See Ordering Guide         |
| vvvvvv.x    | Assembly Lot Code          |
| n.n         | Silicon Revision           |
| #           | RoHS Compliant Designation |
| yyww        | Date Code                  |

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

## TIMING SPECIFICATIONS

The ADSP-21160x DSP's internal clock switches at higher frequencies than the system input clock (CLKIN). To generate the internal clock, the DSP uses an internal phase-locked loop (PLL). This PLL-based clocking minimizes the skew between the system clock (CLKIN) signal and the DSP's internal clock (the clock source for the external port logic and I/O pads).

The ADSP-21160x DSP's internal clock (a multiple of CLKIN) provides the clock signal for timing internal memory, processor core, link ports, serial ports, and external port (as required for read/write strobes in asynchronous access mode). During reset, program the ratio between the DSP's internal clock frequency and external (CLKIN) clock frequency with the CLK\_CFG3-0 pins. Even though the internal clock is the clock source for the external port, the external port clock always switches at the CLKIN frequency. To determine switching frequencies for the serial and link ports, divide down the internal clock, using the programmable divider control of each port (TDIVx/RDIVx for the serial ports and LxCLKD1-0 for the link ports).

Note the following definitions of various clock periods that are a function of CLKIN and the appropriate ratio control:

- t CCLK = (tCK) / CR
- t LCLK = (t CCLK)  LR
- t SCLK = (t CCLK)  SR

## where:

- LCLK = Link Port Clock
- SCLK = Serial Port Clock
- tCK = CLKIN Clock Period
- tCCLK = (Processor) Core Clock Period
- tLCLK = Link Port Clock Period
- t SCLK = Serial Port Clock Period
- CR = Core/CLKIN Ratio (2, 3, or 4:1, determined by CLK\_CFG3-0 at reset)
- LR = Link Port/Core Clock Ratio (1, 2, 3, or 4:1, determined by LxCLKD)
- SR = Serial Port/Core Clock Ratio (wide range, determined by  CLKDIV)

Use the exact timing information given. Do not attempt to derive parameters from the addition or subtraction of others. While addition or subtraction would yield meaningful results for an individual device, the values given in this data sheet reflect statistical variations and worst cases. Consequently, it is not meaningful to add parameters to derive longer times.

See Figure 33 on Page 49 under Test Conditions for voltage reference levels.

Switching characteristics specify how the processor changes its signals. Circuitry external to the processor must be designed for compatibility with these signal characteristics. Switching characteristics describe what the processor will do in a given circumstance. Use switching characteristics to ensure that any timing requirement of a device connected to the processor (such as memory) is satisfied.

Timing requirements apply to signals that are controlled by circuitry external to the processor, such as the data input for a read operation. Timing requirements guarantee that the processor operates correctly with other devices.

During processor reset (RESET pin low) or software reset (SRST bit in SYSCON register = 1), deassertion (MS3-0, HBG, DMAGx, RDx, WRx, CIF, PAGE, BRST) and three-state (FLAG3-0, LxCLK, LxACK, LxDAT7-0, ACK, REDY, PA, TFSx, RFSx, TCLKx, RCLKx, DTx, BMS, TDO, EMU, DATA) timings differ. These occur asynchronously to CLKIN, and may not meet the specifications published in the timing requirements and switching characteristics tables. The maximum delay for deassertion and three-state is one tCK from RESET pin assertion low or setting the SRST bit in SYSCON. During reset the DSP will not respond to SBTS, HBR, and MMS accesses. HBR asserted before reset will be recognized, but an HBG will not be returned by the DSP until after reset is deasserted and the DSP has completed bus synchronization.

Unless otherwise noted, all timing specifications ( Timing Requirements and Switching Characteristics ) listed on pages 21 through 46 apply to both ADSP-21160M and ADSP-21160N.

## Power-Up Sequencing

For power-up sequencing, see Table 12 and Figure 8. During the power-up sequence of the DSP, differences in the ramp-up rates and activation time between the two power supplies can cause current to flow in the I/O ESD protection circuitry. To prevent this damage to the ESD diode protection circuitry, Analog Devices recommends including a bootstrap Schottky diode (see Figure 9). The bootstrap Schottky diode connected between the VDDINT and VDDEXT power supplies protects the ADSP-21160x from partially powering the VDDEXT supply. Including a Schottky diode will shorten the delay between the supply ramps and thus prevent damage to the ESD diode protection circuitry. With this technique, if the V DDINT rail rises ahead of the V DDEXT rail, the Schottky diode pulls the VDDEXT rail along with the VDDINT rail.

Table 12. Power-Up Sequencing

| Parameter                 |                                                  | Min Max       | Unit   |
|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|---------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       |                                                  |               |        |
| t RSTVDD                  | RESET Low Before V DDINT /V DDEXT on             | 0             | ns     |
| t IVDDEVDD                | V DDINT on Before V DDEXT                        | -50 +200      | ms     |
| t CLKVDD                  | CLKIN Running After valid V DDINT /V DDEXT 1     | 0 200         | ms     |
| t CLKRST                  | CLKIN Valid Before RESET Deasserted              | 10 2          | µs     |
| t PLLRST                  | PLL Control Setup Before RESET Deasserted        | 20 3          | µs     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                        |               |        |
| t CORERST                 | DSP Core Reset Deasserted After RESET Deasserted | 4096t CK 3, 4 |        |

Figure 8. Power-Up Sequencing

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

Figure 9. Dual Voltage Schottky Diode

<!-- image -->

## Clock Input

For clock input, see Table 13 and Figure 10.

## Table 13. Clock Input

Figure 10. Clock Input

|                     |                               | ADSP-21160M 80MHz   | ADSP-21160M 80MHz   | ADSP-21160N 100MHz   | ADSP-21160N 100MHz   | Unit   |
|---------------------|-------------------------------|---------------------|---------------------|----------------------|----------------------|--------|
| Parameter           |                               | Min                 | Max                 | Min                  | Max                  |        |
| Timing Requirements | Timing Requirements           |                     |                     |                      |                      |        |
| t CK                | CLKIN Period                  | 25                  | 80                  | 20                   | 80                   | ns     |
| t CKL               | CLKIN Width Low               | 10.5                | 40                  | 7.5                  | 40                   | ns     |
| t CKH               | CLKIN Width High              | 10.5                | 40                  | 7.5                  | 40                   | ns     |
| t CKRF              | CLKIN Rise/Fall (0.4 V-2.0 V) |                     | 3                   |                      | 3                    | ns     |
| t CCLK              | Core Clock Period             | 12.5                | 40                  | 10                   | 30                   | ns     |

<!-- image -->

## Reset

For reset, see Table 14 and Figure 11.

## Table 14. Reset

| Parameter           | Min   | Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------|-------|-------|--------|
| Timing Requirements |       |       |        |
| t WRST RESET        | 4t CK |       | ns     |
| t SRST RESET        | 8     |       | ns     |

Figure 11. Reset

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

## Interrupts

For interrupts, see Table 15 and Figure 12.

## Table 15. Interrupts

| Parameter           | Min                              | Max    | Unit   |
|---------------------|----------------------------------|--------|--------|
| Timing Requirements | Timing Requirements              |        |        |
| t SIR               | IRQ2-0 Setup Before CLKIN High 1 | 6      | ns     |
| t HIR               | IRQ2-0 Hold After CLKIN High 1   | 0      | ns     |
| t IPW               | IRQ2-0 Pulsewidth 2              | 2+t CK | ns     |

Figure 12. Interrupts

<!-- image -->

## Timer

For timer, see Table 16 and Figure 13.

## Table 16. Timer

| Parameter                   | Min   | Max   | Unit   |
|-----------------------------|-------|-------|--------|
| Switching Characteristic    |       |       |        |
| t DTEX CLKIN High to TIMEXP | 1     | 9     | ns     |

Figure 13. Timer

<!-- image -->

## Flags

For flags, see Table 17 and Figure 14.

Table 17. Flags

| Parameter                 | Min                                        | Max      | Unit   |
|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------|----------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       | Timing Requirements                        |          |        |
| t SFI                     | FLAG3-0 IN Setup Before CLKIN High 1       | 4        | ns     |
| t HFI                     | FLAG3-0 IN Hold After CLKIN High 1         | 1        | ns     |
| t DWRFI                   | FLAG3-0 IN Delay After RDx/WRx Low 1, 2    | 10       | ns     |
| t HFIWR                   | FLAG3-0 IN Hold After RDx/WRx Deasserted 1 | 0        | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                  |          |        |
| t DFO                     | FLAG3-0 OUT Delay After CLKIN High         | 9        | ns     |
| t HFO                     | FLAG3-0 OUT Hold After CLKIN High          | 1        | ns     |
| t DFOE                    | CLKIN High to FLAG3-0 OUT Enable           | 1        | ns     |
| t DFOD                    | CLKIN High to FLAG3-0 OUT Disable 3        | t CK - t | ns     |

Figure 14. Flags

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

## Memory Read-Bus Master

Use these specifications for asynchronous interfacing to memories (and memory-mapped peripherals) without reference to CLKIN except for the ACK pin requirements listed in note 6

Table 18. Memory Read-Bus Master

| Parameter                 | Min                                                  | Max                   |                          | Unit   |
|---------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------|--------------------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       | Timing Requirements                                  |                       |                          |        |
| t DAD                     | Address, CIF, Selects Delay to Data Valid 1, 2, 3, 4 |                       | t CK - 0.25t CCLK -8.5+W | ns     |
| t DRLD                    | RDx Low to Data Valid 1, 4, 5                        |                       | t CK - 0.5t CCLK +W      | ns     |
| t HDA                     | Data Hold from Address, Selects 6                    | 0                     |                          | ns     |
| t SDS                     | Data Setup to RDx High 1                             | 8                     |                          | ns     |
| t HDRH                    | Data Hold from RDx High 6                            | 1                     |                          | ns     |
| t DAAK                    | ACK Delay from Address, Selects 2, 7                 |                       | t CK - 0.5t CCLK -12+W   | ns     |
| t DSAK                    | ACK Delay from RDx Low 7                             |                       | t CK - 0.75t CCLK -11+W  | ns     |
| t SAKC                    | ACK Setup to CLKIN 7                                 | 0.5t CCLK +3          |                          | ns     |
| t HAKC                    | ACK Hold After CLKIN                                 | 1                     |                          | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                            |                       |                          |        |
| t DRHA                    | Address, CIF, Selects Hold After RDx High            | 0.25t CCLK -1+H       |                          | ns     |
| t DARL                    | Address, CIF, Selects to RDx Low 2                   | 0.25t CCLK - 3        |                          | ns     |
| t RW                      | RDx Pulsewidth                                       | t CK - 0.5t CCLK -1+W |                          | ns     |
| t RWR                     | RDx High to WRx, RDx, DMAGx Low                      | 0.5t CCLK -1+HI       |                          | ns     |

of Table 18. These specifications apply when the ADSP-21160x is the bus master accessing external memory space in asynchronous access mode.

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

Figure 15. Memory Read-Bus Master

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

## Memory Write-Bus Master

Use these specifications for asynchronous interfacing to memories (and memory-mapped peripherals) without reference to CLKIN except for the ACK pin requirements listed in note 1

Table 19. Memory Write-Bus Master

| Parameter                 | Min                                       | Max                    | Unit   |
|---------------------------|-------------------------------------------|------------------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       |                                           |                        |        |
| t DAAK                    | ACK Delay from Address, Selects 1, 2      | t CK - 0.5t            | ns     |
| t DSAK                    | ACK Delay from WRx Low 1                  | t CK - 0.75t           | ns     |
| t SAKC                    | ACK Setup to CLKIN 1                      | 0.5t CCLK +3           | ns     |
| t HAKC                    | ACK Hold After CLKIN 1                    | 1                      | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                 |                        |        |
| t DAWH                    | Address, CIF, Selects to WRx Deasserted 2 | t CK - 0.25t CCLK -3+W | ns     |
| t DAWL                    | Address, CIF, Selects to WRx Low 2        | 0.25t CCLK - 3         | ns     |
| t WW                      | WRx Pulsewidth                            | t CK - 0.5t CCLK -1+W  | ns     |
| t DDWH                    | Data Setup before WRx High 3              | t CK - 0.5t CCLK -1+W  | ns     |
| t DWHA                    | Address Hold after WRx Deasserted         | 0.25t CCLK -1+H        | ns     |
| t DWHD                    | Data Hold after WRx Deasserted            | 0.25t CCLK -1+H        | ns     |
| t DATRWH                  | Data Disable after WRx Deasserted 4       | 0.25t CCLK -2+H 0.25t  | ns     |
| t WWR                     | WRx High to WRx, RDx,DMAGxLow             | 0.5t CCLK -1+HI        | ns     |
| t DDWR                    | Data Disable before WRx or RDx Low        | 0.25t CCLK - 1+I       | ns     |
| t WDE                     | WRx Low to Data Enabled                   | -0.25t CCLK - 1        | ns     |

of Table 19. These specifications apply when the ADSP-21160x is the bus master accessing external memory space in asynchronous access mode.

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

Figure 16. Memory Write-Bus Master

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

## Synchronous Read/Write-Bus Master

See Table 20 and Figure 17. Use these specifications for interfacing to external memory systems that require CLKIN-relative timing or for accessing a slave ADSP-21160x (in multiprocessor memory space). These synchronous switching characteristics are also valid during asynchronous memory reads and writes except where noted (see Memory Read-Bus Master on page 26 and Memory Write-Bus Master on page 28).

Table 20. Synchronous Read/Write-Bus Master

| Parameter                 |                                                | Min            | Max           | Unit   |
|---------------------------|------------------------------------------------|----------------|---------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       | Timing Requirements                            |                |               |        |
| t SSDATI                  | Data Setup Before CLKIN                        | 5.5            |               | ns     |
| t HSDATI                  | Data Hold After CLKIN                          | 1              |               | ns     |
| t SACKC                   | ACK Setup Before CLKIN                         | 0.5t CCLK +3   |               | ns     |
| t HACKC                   | ACK Hold After CLKIN                           | 1              |               | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                      |                |               |        |
| t DADDO                   | Address, MSx, BMS, BRST, CIF Delay After CLKIN |                | 10            | ns     |
| t HADDO                   | Address, MSx, BMS, BRST, CIF Hold After CLKIN  | 1.5            |               | ns     |
| t DPGO                    | PAGE Delay After CLKIN                         | 1.5            | 11            | ns     |
| t DRDO                    | RDx High Delay After CLKIN                     | 0.25t CCLK - 1 | 0.25t CCLK +9 | ns     |
| t DWRO                    | WRx High Delay After CLKIN                     | 0.25t CCLK - 1 | 0.25t CCLK +9 | ns     |
| t DRWL                    | RDx/WRx Low Delay After CLKIN                  | 0.25t CCLK - 1 | 0.25t CCLK +9 | ns     |
| t DDATO                   | Data Delay After CLKIN 1                       |                | 0.25t CCLK +9 | ns     |
| t HDATO                   | Data Hold After CLKIN                          | 1.5            |               | ns     |
| t DACKMO                  | ACK Delay After CLKIN 2, 3                     | 3              | 9             | ns     |
| t ACKMTR                  | ACK Disable Before CLKIN 2                     | -3             |               | ns     |
| t DCKOO                   | CLKOUT Delay After CLKIN 4                     | 0.5            | 5             | ns     |
| t CKOP                    | CLKOUT Period                                  | t CK - 1       | t CK 5 +1     | ns     |
| t CKWH                    | CLKOUT Width High                              | t CK /2 - 2    | t CK /2+2 2   | ns     |
| t CKWL                    | CLKOUT Width Low                               | t CK /2 - 2    | t CK /2+2 2   | ns     |

When accessing a slave ADSP-21160x, these switching characteristics must meet the slave's timing requirements for synchronous read/writes (see Synchronous Read/Write-Bus Slave on page 32). The slave ADSP-21160x must also meet these (bus master) timing requirements for data and acknowledge setup and hold times.

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

Figure 17. Synchronous Read/Write-Bus Master

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

## Synchronous Read/Write-Bus Slave

See Table 21 and Figure 18. Use these specifications for ADSP-21160x bus master accesses of a slave's IOP registers or internal memory (in multiprocessor memory space). The bus master must meet these (bus slave) timing requirements.

Table 21. Synchronous Read/Write-Bus Slave

| Parameter                 |                                  | Min   | Max             | Unit   |
|---------------------------|----------------------------------|-------|-----------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       | Timing Requirements              |       |                 |        |
| t SADDI                   | Address, BRST Setup Before CLKIN | 5     |                 | ns     |
| t HADDI                   | Address, BRST Hold After CLKIN   | 1     |                 | ns     |
| t SRWI                    | RDx/WRx Setup Before CLKIN       | 5     |                 | ns     |
| t HRWI                    | RDx/WRx Hold After CLKIN         | 1     |                 | ns     |
| t SSDATI                  | Data Setup Before CLKIN          | 5.5   |                 | ns     |
| t HSDATI                  | Data Hold After CLKIN            | 1     |                 | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics        |       |                 |        |
| t DDATO                   | Data Delay After CLKIN 1         |       | 0.25 t CCLK + 9 | ns     |
| t HDATO                   | Data Hold After CLKIN            | 1.5   |                 | ns     |
| t DACKC                   | ACK Delay After CLKIN            |       | 10              | ns     |
| t HACKO                   | ACK Hold After CLKIN             | 1.5   |                 | ns     |

Figure 18. Synchronous Read/Write-Bus Slave

<!-- image -->

## Multiprocessor Bus Request and Host Bus Request

See Table 22 and Figure 19. Use these specifications for passing of bus mastership between multiprocessing ADSP-21160x DSPs (BRx) or a host processor, both synchronous and asynchronous (HBR, HBG).

Table 22. Multiprocessor Bus Request and Host Bus Request

| Parameter                 |                                                   | Min              | Max                      | Unit   |
|---------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|------------------|--------------------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       | Timing Requirements                               |                  |                          |        |
| t HBGRCSV                 | HBG Low to RDx/WRx/CS Valid 1                     |                  | 6.5+t CK +t CCLK -12.5CR | ns     |
| t SHBRI                   | HBR Setup Before CLKIN 2                          | 6                |                          | ns     |
| t HHBRI                   | HBR Hold After CLKIN 2                            | 1                |                          | ns     |
| t SHBGI                   | HBG Setup Before CLKIN                            | 6                |                          | ns     |
| t HHBGI                   | HBG Hold After CLKIN High                         | 1                |                          | ns     |
| t SBRI                    | BRx, PA Setup Before CLKIN                        | 9                |                          | ns     |
| t HBRI                    | BRx, PA Hold After CLKIN High                     | 1                |                          | ns     |
| t SRPBAI                  | RPBA Setup Before CLKIN                           | 6                |                          | ns     |
| t HRPBAI                  | RPBA Hold After CLKIN                             | 2                |                          | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                         |                  |                          |        |
| t DHBGO                   | HBG Delay After CLKIN                             |                  | 7                        | ns     |
| t HHBGO                   | HBG Hold After CLKIN 3                            | 1.5              |                          | ns     |
| t DBRO                    | BRx Delay After CLKIN                             |                  | 8                        | ns     |
| t HBRO                    | BRx Hold After CLKIN                              | 1.5              |                          | ns     |
| t DPASO                   | PA Delay After CLKIN, Slave                       |                  | 8                        | ns     |
| t TRPAS                   | PA Disable After CLKIN, Slave                     | 1.5              |                          | ns     |
| t DPAMO                   | PA Delay After CLKIN, Master                      |                  | 0.25t CCLK +9            | ns     |
| t PATR                    | PA Disable Before CLKIN, Master 4                 | 0.25t CCLK - 5.5 |                          | ns     |
| t DRDYCS                  | REDY (O/D) or (A/D) Low from CS and HBR Low 5, 6  |                  | 0.5t CK +1.0             | ns     |
| t TRDYHG                  | REDY (O/D) Disable or REDY (A/D) High from HBG 5, | t CK +15         |                          | ns     |
| t ARDYTR                  | REDY (A/D) Disable from CS or HBR High 5          |                  | 11                       | ns     |

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

Figure 19. Multiprocessor Bus Request and Host Bus Request

<!-- image -->

## Asynchronous Read/Write-Host to ADSP-21160x

Use these specifications (Table 23, Table 24, Figure 20, and Figure 21) for asynchronous host processor accesses of an ADSP-21160x, after the host has asserted CS and HBR (low).

Table 23. Read Cycle

| Parameter                 |                                               | Min      | Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|----------|-------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       | Timing Requirements                           |          |       |        |
| t SADRDL                  | Address Setup/CS Low Before RDx Low           | 0        |       | ns     |
| t HADRDH                  | Address Hold/CS Hold Low After RDx            | 2        |       | ns     |
| t WRWH                    | RDx/WRx High Width                            | 5        |       | ns     |
| t DRDHRDY                 | RDx High Delay After REDY (O/D) Disable       | 0        |       | ns     |
| t DRDHRDY                 | RDx High Delay After REDY (A/D) Disable       | 0        |       | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                     |          |       |        |
| t SDATRDY                 | Data Valid Before REDY Disable from Low       | 2        |       | ns     |
| t DRDYRDL                 | REDY (O/D) or (A/D) Low Delay After RDx Low 1 |          | 11    | ns     |
| t RDYPRD                  | REDY (O/D) or (A/D) Low Pulsewidth for Read 2 | t CK - 4 |       | ns     |
| t HDARWH                  | Data Disable After RDx High 3                 | 1.5      | 6     | ns     |

Table 24. Write Cycle

| Parameter                 |                                                  | Min              | Unit   |
|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|------------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       | Timing Requirements                              |                  |        |
| t SCSWRL                  | CS Low Setup Before WRxLow                       | 0                | ns     |
| t HCSWRH                  | CS Low Hold After WRx High                       | 0                | ns     |
| t SADWRH                  | Address Setup Before WRx High                    | 6                | ns     |
| t HADWRH                  | Address Hold After WRx High                      | 2                | ns     |
| t WWRL                    | WRx Low Width 1                                  | t CCLK +1        | ns     |
| t WRWH                    | RDx/WRx High Width                               | 5                | ns     |
| t DWRHRDY                 | WRx High Delay After REDY (O/D) or (A/D) Disable | 0                | ns     |
| t SDATWH                  | Data Setup Before WRx High                       | 5                | ns     |
| t HDATWH                  | Data Hold After WRx High                         | 4                | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                        |                  |        |
| t DRDYWRL                 | REDY (O/D) or (A/D) Low Delay After WRx/CS Low   |                  | ns     |
| t RDYPWR                  | REDY (O/D) or (A/D) Low Pulsewidth for Write 2   | 5.75 + 0.5t CCLK | ns     |

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

After HBG is returned by the ADSP-21160x, the host can drive the RDx and WRx pins to access the ADSP-21160x DSP's internal memory or IOP registers. HBR and HBG are assumed low for this timing.

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

Figure 20. Asynchronous Read-Host to ADSP-21160x

<!-- image -->

Figure 21. Asynchronous Write-Host to ADSP-21160x

<!-- image -->

## Three-State Timing-Bus Master, Bus Slave

See Table 25 and Figure 22. These specifications show how the memory interface is disabled (stops driving) or enabled (resumes driving) relative to CLKIN and the SBTS pin. This timing is applicable to bus master transition cycles (BTC) and host transition cycles (HTC) as well as the SBTS pin.

Table 25. Three-State Timing-Bus Master, Bus Slave

| Parameter                 |                                               | Min                 | Max                 | Unit   |
|---------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|---------------------|---------------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       | Timing Requirements                           |                     |                     |        |
| t STSCK                   | SBTS Setup Before CLKIN                       | 6                   |                     | ns     |
| t HTSCK                   | SBTS Hold After CLKIN 1                       | 2                   |                     | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                     |                     |                     |        |
| t MIENA                   | Address/Select Enable After CLKIN             | 1.5                 | 9                   | ns     |
| t MIENS                   | Strobes Enable After CLKIN 2                  | 1.5                 | 9                   | ns     |
| t MIENHG                  | HBG Enable After CLKIN                        | 1.5                 | 9                   | ns     |
| t MITRA                   | Address/Select Disable After CLKIN 3          | 0.5                 | 9                   | ns     |
| t MITRS                   | Strobes Disable After CLKIN 2, 4, 5           | 0.25t CCLK - 4      | 0.25t CCLK +1.5     | ns     |
| t MITRHG                  | HBG Disable After CLKIN 6                     | 0.5                 | 8                   | ns     |
| t DATEN                   | Data Enable After CLKIN 7, 8                  | 0.25t CCLK +1       | 0.25t CCLK +7       | ns     |
| t DATTR                   | Data Disable After CLKIN 7, 9                 | 0.5                 | 5                   | ns     |
| t ACKEN                   | ACK Enable After CLKIN 7                      | 1.5                 | 9                   | ns     |
| t ACKTR                   | ACK Disable After CLKIN 7                     | 1.5                 | 5                   | ns     |
| t CDCEN                   | CLKOUT Enable After CLKIN 10                  | 0.5                 | 9                   | ns     |
| t CDCTR                   | CLKOUT Disable After CLKIN                    | t CCLK - 3          | t CCLK +1           | ns     |
| t ATRHBG                  | Address, MSx Disable Before HBG Low 11        | 1.5t CK - 6         | 1.5t CK + 5         | ns     |
| t STRHBG                  | RDx, WRx, DMAGx Disable Before HBG Low 11     | t CK + 0.25t CCLK - | t CK + 0.25t CCLK + | ns     |
| t PTRHBG                  | Page Disable Before HBG Low 11                | t CK - 6            | t CK + 5            | ns     |
| t BTRHBG                  | BMS Disable Before HBG Low 11                 | 0.5t CK - 6.5       | 0.5t CK + 1.5       | ns     |
| t MENHBG                  | Memory Interface Enable After HBG High 12, 13 | t CK - 5            | t CK +6             | ns     |

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

Figure 22. Three-State Timing-Bus Master, Bus Slave

<!-- image -->

## DMA Handshake

See Table 26 and Figure 23. These specifications describe the three DMA handshake modes. In all three modes, DMARx is used to initiate transfers. For handshake mode, DMAGx controls the latching or enabling of data externally. For external handshake mode, the data transfer is controlled by the ADDR31-0, RDx, WRx, PAGE, MS3-0, ACK, and DMAGx

## Table 26. DMA Handshake

| Parameter                 |                                       | Min                    | Max                  |
|---------------------------|---------------------------------------|------------------------|----------------------|
| Timing Requirements       | Timing Requirements                   |                        |                      |
| t SDRC                    | DMARx Setup Before CLKIN 1            | 3                      |                      |
| t WDR                     | DMARx Width Low (Nonsynchronous) 2, 3 | 0.5t CCLK +2.5         |                      |
| t SDATDGL                 | Data Setup AfterDMAGxLow 4, 5         |                        | t CK - 0.5t CCLK -7  |
| t HDATIDG                 | Data Hold AfterDMAGx High             | 2                      |                      |
| t DATDRH                  | Data Valid After DMARx High 4, 6      |                        | t CK +3              |
| t DMARLL                  | DMARx Low Edge to Low Edge 7          | t CK                   |                      |
| t DMARH                   | DMARx Width High 2, 8                 | 0.5t CCLK +1           |                      |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics             |                        |                      |
| t DDGL                    | DMAGx Low Delay After CLKIN           | 0.25t CCLK +1          | 0.25t CCLK +9        |
| t WDGH                    | DMAGx High Width                      | 0.5t CCLK -1+HI        |                      |
| t WDGL                    | DMAGx Low Width                       | t CK - 0.5t CCLK - 1   |                      |
| t HDGC                    | DMAGx High Delay After CLKIN          | t CK - 0.25t CCLK +1.5 | t CK - 0.25t CCLK +9 |
| t VDATDGH                 | Data Valid Before DMAGxHigh 9         | t CK - 0.25t CCLK - 8  | t CK - 0.25t CCLK +5 |
| t DATRDGH                 | Data Disable AfterDMAGx High 10       | 0.25t CCLK - 3         | 0.25t CCLK +1.5      |
| t DGWRL                   | WRx Low Before DMAGxLow               | -1.5                   | 2                    |
| t DGWRH                   | DMAGx Low Before WRx High             | t CK - 0.5t CCLK -2+W  |                      |
| t DGWRR                   | WRx High BeforeDMAGx High 11          | -1.5                   | 2                    |
| t DGRDL                   | RDx Low Before DMAGxLow               | -1.5                   | 2                    |
| t DRDGH                   | RDx Low Before DMAGxHigh              | t CK - 0.5t CCLK -2+W  |                      |
| t DGRDR                   | RDx High Before DMAGxHigh 11          | -1.5                   | 2                    |
| t DGWR                    | DMAGx High to WRx, RDx,DMAGx Low      | 0.5t CCLK -2+HI        |                      |
| t DADGH                   | Address/Select Valid to DMAGxHigh 12  | 15.5                   |                      |
| t DDGHA                   | Address/Select Hold after DMAGxHigh   | 1                      |                      |

W = (number of wait states specified in WAIT register)  t CK .

HI = t CK (if data bus idle cycle occurs, as specified in WAIT register; otherwise HI = 0).

1 Only required for recognition in the current cycle.

2 Maximum throughput using DMARx / DMAGx handshaking equals tWDR + tDMARH = (0.5tCCLK+1) + (0.5tCCLK+1)=10.0 ns (100 MHz). This throughput limit applies to non-synchronous access mode only.

3 For ADSP-21160M, specification is tCCLK+4.5 ns, minimum.

4 tSDATDGL is the data setup requirement if DMARx is not being used to hold off completion of a write. Otherwise, if DMARx low holds off completion of the write, the data can be driven tDATDRH after DMARx is brought high.

5 For ADSP-21160M, specification is 0.75tCCLK-7 ns, maximum.

6 For ADSP-21160M, specification is tCLK+10 ns, maximum.

7 Use tDMARLL if DMARx transitions synchronous with CLKIN. Otherwise, use tWDR and tDMARH.

8 For ADSP-21160M, specification is tCCLK+4.5 ns, minimum.

9 t VDATDGH is valid if DMARx is not being used to hold off completion of a read. If DMARx is used to prolong the read, then tVDATDGH = tCK - 0.25tCCLK - 8 + (n × tCK) where n equals the number of extra cycles that the access is prolonged.

10 See Example System Hold Time Calculation on page 49 for calculation of hold times given capacitive and dc loads.

11 This parameter applies for synchronous access mode only.

12 For ADSP-21160M, specification is 18 ns, minimum.

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

signals. For Paced Master mode, the data transfer is controlled by ADDR31-0, RDx, WRx, MS3-0, and ACK (not DMAGx). For Paced Master mode, the Memory Read-Bus Master, Memory Write-Bus Master, and Synchronous Read/Write-Bus Master timing specifications for ADDR31-0, RDx, WRx, MS3-0, PAGE, DATA63-0, and ACK also apply.

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

<!-- image -->

* MEMORY READ BU S MA S TER, MEMORY WRITE BU S MA S TER, OR S YNCHRONOU S READ/WRITE BU S MA S TER TIMING S PECIFICATION S FOR ADDR 3 1-0, RDx , WRx , MS3-0 AND ACK AL S O APPLY HERE.

Figure 23. DMA Handshake

## Link Ports-Receive, Transmit

For link ports, see Table 27, Table 28, Figure 24, and Figure 25. Calculation of link receiver data setup and hold, relative to link clock, is required to determine the maximum allowable skew that can be introduced in the transmission path, between LDATA and LCLK. Setup skew is the maximum delay that can be introduced in LDATA, relative to LCLK (setup skew = tLCLKTWH minimum - tDLDCH - t SLDCL ). Hold skew is the

Table 27. Link Ports-Receive

| Parameter                 | Min                                 | Max    |    | Unit   |
|---------------------------|-------------------------------------|--------|----|--------|
| Timing Requirements       | Timing Requirements                 |        |    |        |
| t SLDCL                   | Data Setup Before LCLK Low          | 2.5    |    | ns     |
| t HLDCL                   | Data Hold After LCLK Low 1          | 3      |    | ns     |
| t LCLKIW                  | LCLK Period                         | t LCLK |    | ns     |
| t LCLKRWL                 | LCLK Width Low 2                    | 4      |    | ns     |
| t LCLKRWH                 | LCLK Width High 3                   | 4      |    | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics           |        |    |        |
| t DLALC                   | LACK Low Delay After LCLK High 4, 5 | 9      | 17 | ns     |

Figure 24. Link Ports-Receive

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

maximum delay that can be introduced in LCLK, relative to LDATA (hold skew = tLCLKTWL minimum + tHLDCH - tHLDCL). Calculations made directly from speed specifications result in unrealistically small skew times, because they include multiple tester guardbands.

Note that there is a two-cycle effect latency between the link port enable instruction and the DSP enabling the link port.

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

## Table 28. Link Ports-Transmit

| Parameter                 | Min                                        | Max                  | Unit   |
|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------|----------------------|--------|
| Timing                    | Requirements                               |                      |        |
| t SLACH                   | LACK Setup Before LCLK High 14             |                      | ns     |
| t HLACH                   | LACK Hold After LCLK High -2               |                      | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                  |                      |        |
| t DLDCH                   | Data Delay After LCLK High                 | 4                    | ns     |
| t HLDCH                   | Data Hold After LCLK High -2               |                      | ns     |
| t LCLKTWL                 | LCLK Width Low 1 0.5t LCLK                 | - 0.5 0.5t LCLK +0.5 | ns     |
| t LCLKTWH                 | LCLK Width High 2 0.5t LCLK                | -0.5 0.5t LCLK +0.5  | ns     |
| t DLACLK                  | LCLK Low Delay After LACK High 3 0.5t LCLK | +4 3/2t LCLK +11     | ns     |

THE tSLACH REQUIREMENT APPLIES TO THE RISING EDGE OF LCLK ONLY FOR THE FIRST NIBBLE/BYTE TRANSMITTED.

<!-- image -->

Figure 25. Link Ports-Transmit

## Serial Ports

For serial ports, see Table 29, Table 30, Table 31, Table 32, Table 33, Table 34, Table 35, Figure 26, and Figure 27. To determine whether communication is possible between two devices

## Table 29. Serial Ports-External Clock

| Parameter           | Min                               | Max     | Unit   |
|---------------------|-----------------------------------|---------|--------|
| Timing Requirements | Timing Requirements               |         |        |
| t SFSE              | TFS/RFS Setup Before TCLK/RCLK 1  | 3.5     | ns     |
| t HFSE              | TFS/RFS Hold After TCLK/RCLK 1    | 4       | ns     |
| t SDRE              | Receive Data Setup Before RCLK 1  | 1.5     | ns     |
| t HDRE              | Receive Data Hold After RCLK 1, 2 | 6.5     | ns     |
| t SCLKW             | TCLK/RCLK Width 3                 | 8       | ns     |
| t SCLK              | TCLK/RCLK Period                  | 2t CCLK | ns     |

## Table 30. Serial Ports-Internal Clock

| Parameter           |                                                 | Min Max       | Unit   |
|---------------------|-------------------------------------------------|---------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements |                                                 |               |        |
| t SFSI              | TFS Setup Before TCLK 1 ; RFS Setup Before RCLK | 8             | ns     |
| t HFSI              | TFS/RFS Hold After TCLK/RCLK 1, 2               | t CCLK /2 + 1 | ns     |
| t SDRI              | Receive Data Setup Before RCLK 1                | 6.5           | ns     |
| t HDRI              | Receive Data Hold After RCLK 1                  | 3             | ns     |

## Table 31. Serial Ports-External or Internal Clock

| Parameter                 | Min                                                | Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|-------|--------|
| Switching Characteristics |                                                    |       |        |
| t DFSE RFS Delay          | After RCLK (Internally Generated RFS) 1            | 13    | ns     |
| t HOFSE                   | RFS Hold After RCLK (Internally Generated RFS) 1 3 |       | ns     |

## Table 32. Serial Ports-External Clock

| Parameter                 | Min                                                | Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|-------|--------|
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                          |       |        |
| t DFSE                    | TFS Delay After TCLK (Internally Generated TFS) 1  | 13    | ns     |
| t HOFSE                   | TFS Hold After TCLK (Internally Generated TFS) 1 3 |       | ns     |
| t DDTE                    | Transmit Data Delay After TCLK 1                   | 16    | ns     |
| t HDTE                    | Transmit Data Hold After TCLK 1 0                  |       | ns     |

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

at clock speed n, the following specifications must be confirmed: 1) frame sync delay and frame sync setup and hold, 2) data delay and data setup and hold, and 3) SCLK width.

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

## Table 33. Serial Ports-Enable and Three-State

| Parameter                 | Min                               | Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------------|-----------------------------------|-------|--------|
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics         |       |        |
| t DDTEN                   | Data Enable from External TCLK 1  | 4     | ns     |
| t DDTTE                   | Data Disable from External TCLK 1 | 10    | ns     |
| t DDTIN                   | Data Enable from Internal TCLK 1  | 0     | ns     |
| t DDTTI                   | Data Disable from Internal TCLK 1 | 3     | ns     |

## Table 34. Serial Ports-Internal Clock

| Parameter                 | Min                                               | Max                      | Unit   |
|---------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|--------------------------|--------|
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                         |                          |        |
| t DFSI                    | TFS Delay After TCLK (Internally Generated TFS) 1 | 4.5                      | ns     |
| t HOFSI                   | TFS Hold After TCLK (Internally Generated TFS) 1  | -1.5                     | ns     |
| t DDTI                    | Transmit Data Delay After TCLK 1                  | 7.5                      | ns     |
| t HDTI                    | Transmit Data Hold After TCLK 1                   | 0                        | ns     |
| t SCLKIW                  | TCLK/RCLK Width 2                                 | 0.5t SCLK -1.5 0.5t SCLK | ns     |

## EXTERNAL RFS WITH MCE = 1, MFD = 0

<!-- image -->

## LATE EXTERNAL TFS

Figure 26. Serial Ports-External Late Frame Sync

<!-- image -->

Table 35. Serial Ports-External Late Frame Sync

| Parameter                 | Parameter                                                       | Min   | Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|-------|-------|--------|
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                                       |       |       |        |
| t DDTLFSE                 | Data Delay from Late External TFS or External RFS with MCE = 1, |       | 13    | ns     |
| t DDTENFS                 | Data Enable from Late FS or MCE = 1,MFD=0 1                     | 1.0   |       | ns     |

DATA RECEIVE- INTERNAL CLOCK

DRIVE

EDGE

tHOFSE

tSCLKIW

SAMPLE

EDGE

RCLK

RFS

DR

TCLK

TFS

DT

tDFSE

t

DFSI

t

DDTI

t

SFSI

tSDRI

t

SFSI

t

HFSI

tHDRI

t

HFSI

RCLK

RFS

DR

NOTE: EITHER THE RISING EDGE OR FALLING EDGE OF RCLK, TCLK CAN BE USED AS THE ACTIVE SAMPLING EDGE.

DATA TRANSMIT- INTERNAL CLOCK

DRIVE

EDGE

tHOFSI

t

HDTI

tSCLKIW

SAMPLE

EDGE

DATA TRANSMIT- EXTERNAL CLOCK

DRIVE

EDGE

tHOFSE

tHDTE

tSCLKW

SAMPLE

EDGE

tHFSE

TCLK

TFS

DT

NOTE: EITHER THE RISING EDGE OR FALLING EDGE OF RCLK, TCLK CAN BE USED AS THE ACTIVE SAMPLING EDGE.

Figure 27. Serial Ports

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

DATA RECEIVE- EXTERNAL CLOCK

DRIVE

EDGE

tHOFSE

tSCLKW

SAMPLE

EDGE

tHFSE

tHDRE

tDFSE

tDFSE

tDDTE

tSFSE

tSDRE

tSFSE

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

## JTAG Test Access Port and Emulation

For JTAG Test Access Port and emulation, see Table 36 and Figure 28.

Table 36. JTAG Test Access Port and Emulation

| Parameter                 |                                      | Min   | Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------------|--------------------------------------|-------|-------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       | Timing Requirements                  |       |       |        |
| t TCK                     | TCK Period                           | t CK  |       | ns     |
| t STAP                    | TDI, TMS Setup Before TCK High       | 5     |       | ns     |
| t HTAP                    | TDI, TMS Hold After TCK High         | 6     |       | ns     |
| t SSYS                    | System Inputs Setup Before TCK Low 1 | 7     |       | ns     |
| t HSYS                    | System Inputs Hold After TCK Low 1   | 18    |       | ns     |
| t TRSTW                   | TRST Pulsewidth                      | 4t CK |       | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics            |       |       |        |
| t DTDO                    | TDODelay from TCK Low                |       | 13    | ns     |
| t DSYS                    | System Outputs Delay After TCK Low   |       | 30    | ns     |

Figure 28. JTAG Test Access Port and Emulation

<!-- image -->

## OUTPUT DRIVE CURRENTS-ADSP-21160M

Figure 29 shows typical I-V characteristics for the output drivers of the ADSP-21160M. The curves represent the current drive capability of the output drivers as a function of output voltage.

Figure 29. ADSP-21160M Typical Drive Currents

<!-- image -->

## OUTPUT DRIVE CURRENTS-ADSP-21160N

Figure 30 shows typical I-V characteristics for the output drivers of the ADSP-21160N. The curves represent the current drive capability of the output drivers as a function of output voltage.

Figure 30. ADSP-21160N Typical Drive Currents

<!-- image -->

## POWER DISSIPATION

Total power dissipation has two components: one due to internal circuitry and one due to the switching of external output drivers.

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

Internal power dissipation is dependent on the instruction execution sequence and the data operands involved. Using the current specifications (I DD-INPEAK , I DD-INHIGH , IDD-INLOW, and IDD-IDLE) from Electrical Characteristics-ADSP-21160M on Page 16 and Electrical Characteristics-ADSP-21160N on Page 18 and the current-versus-operation information in Table 37, engineers can estimate the ADSP-21160x DSP's internal power supply (VDDINT) input current for a specific application, according to the formula:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The external component of total power dissipation is caused by the switching of output pins. Its magnitude depends on:

- The number of output pins that switch during each cycle ( O )
- The maximum frequency at which they can switch ( f )
- Their load capacitance ( C )
- Their voltage swing ( VDD )

and is calculated by:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The load capacitance should include the processor's package capacitance (CIN). The switching frequency includes driving the load high and then back low. Address and data pins can drive high and low at a maximum rate of 1/(2tCK). The write strobe can switch every cycle at a frequency of 1/t CK. Select pins switch at 1/(2t CK), but selects can switch on each cycle.

Example for ADSP-21160N: Estimate PEXT with the following assumptions:

- A system with one bank of external data memoryasynchronous RAM (64-bit)
- Four 64K × 16 RAM chips are used, each with a load of 10 pF
- External data memory writes occur every other cycle, a rate of 1/(2 tCK), with 50% of the pins switching
- The bus cycle time is 50 MHz (tCK = 20 ns).

The PEXT equation is calculated for each class of pins that can drive, as shown in Table 38.

A typical power consumption can now be calculated for these conditions by adding a typical internal power dissipation:

P

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where:

- PEXT is from Table 38
- PINT is I DDINT × 1.9 V, using the calculation I DDINT listed in Power Dissipation on page 47
- PPLL is AI DD × 1.9 V, using the value for AI DD listed in Electrical Characteristics-ADSP-21160M on Page 16 and Electrical Characteristics-ADSP-21160N on Page 18

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

Table 37. ADSP-21160x Operation Types vs. Input Current

| Operation                 | Peak Activity 1                       | High Activity 1                   | LowActivity 1            |
|---------------------------|---------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|--------------------------|
| Instruction Type          | Multifunction                         | Multifunction Internal Memory     | Single Function Internal |
| Instruction Fetch         | Cache                                 |                                   | Memory                   |
| Core Memory Access 2      | 2 per t CK Cycle (DM 3 64 andPM 3 64) | 1 per t CK Cycle (DM 3 64)        | None                     |
| InternalMemoryDMA         | 1 per 2 t CCLK Cycles                 | 1 per 2 t CCLK Cycles             | None                     |
| ExternalMemoryDMA         | 1 per External Port Cycle ( 3 64)     | 1 per External Port Cycle ( 3 64) | None                     |
| Data Bit Pattern for Core | Worst Case                            | Random                            | N/A                      |
| Memory AccessandDMA       |                                       |                                   |                          |

## Table 38. External Power Calculations (ADSP-21160N Example)

| Pin Type   |   No. of Pins | %Switching   | × C       | × f     | ×V DD 2   | = P EXT   |
|------------|---------------|--------------|-----------|---------|-----------|-----------|
| Address    |            15 | 50           | × 44.7 pF | × 24MHz | × 10.9 V  | = 0.088W  |
| MS0        |             1 | 0            | × 44.7 pF | × 24MHz | × 10.9 V  | = 0.000W  |
| WRx        |             2 |              | × 44.7 pF | × 24MHz | × 10.9 V  | = 0.023W  |
| Data       |            64 | 50           | × 14.7 pF | × 24MHz | × 10.9 V  | = 0.123W  |
| CLKOUT     |             1 |              | × 4.7 pF  | × 48MHz | × 10.9 V  | = 0.003W  |

P

Note that the conditions causing a worst-case PEXT are different from those causing a worst-case PINT. Maximum PINT cannot occur while 100% of the output pins are switching from all ones to all zeros. Note also that it is not common for an application to have 100% or even 50% of the outputs switching simultaneously.

## TEST CONDITIONS

The test conditions for timing parameters appearing in ADSP-21160x specifications on page 17 include output disable time, output enable time, and capacitive loading.

## Output Disable Time

Output pins are considered to be disabled when they stop driving, go into a high-impedance state, and start to decay from their output high or low voltage. The time for the voltage on the bus to decay by  V is dependent on the capacitive load, CL and the load current, IL. This decay time can be approximated by the following equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The output disable time tDIS is the difference between t MEASURED and tDECAY as shown in Figure 31. The time tMEASURED is the interval from when the reference signal switches to when the output

EXT

= 0.237 W

voltage decays  V from the measured output high or output low voltage. t DECAY is calculated with test loads C L and I L , and with  V equal to 0.5 V.

Figure 31. Output Enable/Disable

<!-- image -->

## Output Enable Time

Output pins are considered to be enabled when they have made a transition from a high impedance state to when they start driving. The output enable time tENA is the interval from when a reference signal reaches a high or low voltage level to when the output has reached a specified high or low trip point, as shown in the output enable/disable diagram (Figure 31). If multiple pins (such as the data bus) are enabled, the measurement value is that of the first pin to start driving.

## Example System Hold Time Calculation

To determine the data output hold time in a particular system, first calculate tDECAY using the equation given above. Choose  V to be the difference between the ADSP-21160x DSP's output voltage and the input threshold for the device requiring the hold time. A typical  V will be 0.4 V. C L is the total bus capacitance (per data line), and I L is the total leakage or three-state current (per data line). The hold time will be tDECAY plus the minimum disable time (i.e., t DATRWH for the write cycle).

Figure 32. Equivalent Device Loading for AC Measurements (Includes All Fixtures)

<!-- image -->

Figure 33. Voltage Reference Levels for AC Measurements (Except Output Enable/Disable)

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

## Capacitive Loading

Output delays and holds are based on standard capacitive loads: 30 pF on all pins (see Figure 32). Figure 34, Figure 35, Figure 37, and Figure 38 show how output rise time varies with capacitance. Figure 36 and Figure 39 graphically show how output delays and holds vary with load capacitance. (Note that this graph or derating does not apply to output disable delays; see Output Disable Time on Page 48.) The graphs of Figure 34 through Figure 39 may not be linear outside the ranges shown.

Figure 34. ADSP-21160M Typical Output Rise Time (10%-90%, VDDEXT =Max) vs. Load Capacitance

<!-- image -->

Figure 35. ADSP-21160M Typical Output Rise Time (10%-90%, VDDEXT =Min) vs. Load Capacitance

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

<!-- image -->

Figure 36. ADSP-21160M Typical Output Delay or Hold vs. Load Capacitance (at Max Case Temperature)

<!-- image -->

Figure 37. ADSP-21160N Typical Output Rise Time (20%-80%, VDDEXT = Max) vs. Load Capacitance

Figure 38. ADSP-21160N Typical Output Rise Time (20%-80%, VDDEXT =Min) vs. Load Capacitance

<!-- image -->

Figure 39. ADSP-21160N Typical Output Delay or Hold vs. Load Capacitance (at Max Case Temperature)

<!-- image -->

## ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS

## Thermal Characteristics

The ADSP-21160x DSPs are provided in a 400-Ball PBGA (Plastic Ball Grid Array) package.

The ADSP-21160x is specified for a case temperature ( TCASE ). To ensure that the TCASE data sheet specification is not exceeded, a heatsink and/or an air flow source may be used. Use the centerblock of ground pins (for ADSP-21160M, PBGA balls: H8-13, J8-13, K8-13, L8-13, M8-13, N8-13; for ADSP-21160N, PBGA balls: F7-14, G7-14, H7-14, J7-14, K7-14, L7-14, M-14, N7-14, P7-14, R7-15) to provide thermal pathways to the printed circuit board's ground plane. A heatsink should be attached to the ground plane (as close as possible to the thermal pathways) with a thermal adhesive.

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

- TCASE = Case temperature (measured on top surface of package)
- TAMB = Ambient temperature °C
- PD = Power dissipation in W (this value depends upon the specific application; a method for calculating PD is shown under Power Dissipation).
-  CA = Value from Table 39.
-  JB = 6.46°C/W

## Table 39. Airflow Over Package Versus  CA

| Airflow (Linear Ft./Min.)   |     0 |   200 |   400 |
|-----------------------------|-------|-------|-------|
|  CA (°C/W) 1               | 12.13 |  9.86 |   8.7 |

1  JC = 3.6 °C/W

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

## 400-BALL PBGA PIN CONFIGURATIONS

Table 40 lists the pin assignments for the PBGA package, and the pin configurations diagram in Figure 40 (ADSP-21160M) and Figure 41 (ADSP-21160N) show the pin assignment summary.

Table 40. 400-Ball PBGA Pin Assignments

| (See Footnotes 1 and 2)   | (See Footnotes 1 and 2)   | (See Footnotes 1 and 2)   | (See Footnotes 1 and 2)   | (See Footnotes 1 and 2)   | (See Footnotes 1 and 2)   | (See Footnotes 1 and 2)   | (See Footnotes 1 and 2)   |
|---------------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------|
| PinName                   | Pin No.                   | PinName                   | Pin No.                   | PinName                   | Pin No.                   | PinName                   | Pin No.                   |
| DATA[14]                  | A01                       | DATA[22]                  | B01                       | DATA[24]                  | C01                       | DATA[28]                  | D01                       |
| DATA[13]                  | A02                       | DATA[16]                  | B02                       | DATA[18]                  | C02                       | DATA[25]                  | D02                       |
| DATA[10]                  | A03                       | DATA[15]                  | B03                       | DATA[17]                  | C03                       | DATA[20]                  | D03                       |
| DATA[8]                   | A04                       | DATA[9]                   | B04                       | DATA[11]                  | C04                       | DATA[19]                  | D04                       |
| DATA[4]                   | A05                       | DATA[6]                   | B05                       | DATA[7]                   | C05                       | DATA[12]                  | D05                       |
| DATA[2]                   | A06                       | DATA[3]                   | B06                       | DATA[5]                   | C06                       | V DDEXT                   | D06                       |
| TDI                       | A07                       | DATA[0]                   | B07                       | DATA[1]                   | C07                       | V DDINT                   | D07                       |
| TRST                      | A08                       | TCK                       | B08                       | TMS                       | C08                       | V DDEXT                   | D08                       |
| RESET                     | A09                       | EMU                       | B09                       | TD0                       | C09                       | V DDEXT                   | D09                       |
| RPBA                      | A10                       | IRQ2                      | B10                       | IRQ1                      | C10                       | V DDEXT                   | D10                       |
| IRQ0                      | A11                       | FLAG3                     | B11                       | FLAG2                     | C11                       | V DDEXT                   | D11                       |
| FLAG1                     | A12                       | FLAG0                     | B12                       | NC 1                      | C12                       | V DDEXT                   | D12                       |
| TIMEXP                    | A13                       | NC 1                      | B13                       | NC                        | C13                       | V DDINT                   | D13                       |
| NC 1                      | A14                       | NC                        | B14                       | TCLK1                     | C14                       | V DDEXT                   | D14                       |
| NC                        | A15                       | DT1                       | B15                       | DR1                       | C15                       | TFS0                      | D15                       |
| TFS1                      | A16                       | RCLK1                     | B16                       | DR0                       | C16                       | L1DAT[7]                  | D16                       |
| RFS1                      | A17                       | RFS0                      | B17                       | L0DAT[7]                  | C17                       | L0CLK                     | D17                       |
| RCLK0                     | A18                       | TCLK0                     | B18                       | L0DAT[6]                  | C18                       | L0DAT[3]                  | D18                       |
| DT0                       | A19                       | L0DAT[5]                  | B19                       | L0ACK                     | C19                       | L0DAT[1]                  | D19                       |
| L0DAT[4]                  | A20                       | L0DAT[2]                  | B20                       | L0DAT[0]                  | C20                       | L1CLK                     | D20                       |
| DATA[30]                  | E01                       | DATA[34]                  | F01                       | DATA[38]                  | G01                       | DATA[40]                  | H01                       |
| DATA[29]                  | E02                       | DATA[33]                  | F02                       | DATA[35]                  | G02                       | DATA[39]                  | H02                       |
| DATA[23]                  | E03                       | DATA[27]                  | F03                       | DATA[32]                  | G03                       | DATA[37]                  | H03                       |
| DATA[21]                  | E04                       | DATA[26]                  | F04                       | DATA[31]                  | G04                       | DATA[36]                  | H04                       |
| V DDEXT                   | E05                       | V DDEXT                   | F05                       | V DDEXT                   | G05                       | V DDEXT                   | H05                       |
| V DDINT                   | E06                       | V DDINT                   | F06                       | V DDINT                   | G06                       | V DDINT                   | H06                       |
| V DDINT                   | E07                       | GND                       | F07                       | GND                       | G07                       | GND                       | H07                       |
| V DDINT                   | E08                       | GND                       | F08                       | GND                       | G08                       | GND                       | H08                       |
| V DDINT                   | E09                       | GND                       | F09                       | GND                       | G09                       | GND                       | H09                       |
| V DDINT                   | E10                       | GND                       | F10                       | GND                       | G10                       | GND                       | H10                       |
| GND                       | E11                       | GND                       | F11                       | GND                       | G11                       | GND                       | H11                       |
| V DDINT                   | E12                       | GND                       | F12                       | GND                       | G12                       | GND                       | H12                       |
| V DDINT                   | E13                       | GND                       | F13                       | GND                       | G13                       | GND                       | H13                       |
| V DDINT                   | E14                       | GND                       | F14                       | GND                       | G14                       | GND                       | H14                       |
| V DDINT                   | E15                       | V DDINT V DDEXT           | F15                       | V DDINT                   | G15                       | V DDINT                   | H15                       |
| V DDEXT                   | E16                       |                           | F16                       | V DDEXT                   | G16                       | V DDEXT                   | H16                       |
| L1DAT[6]                  | E17                       | L1DAT[4]                  | F17                       | L1DAT[2]                  | G17                       | L2DAT[5]                  | H17                       |
| L1DAT[5]                  | E18                       | L1DAT[3]                  | F18                       | L2DAT[6]                  | G18                       | L2ACK                     | H18                       |
| L1ACK                     | E19                       | L1DAT[0]                  | F19                       | L2DAT[4]                  | G19                       | L2DAT[3]                  | H19                       |
| L1DAT[1]                  | E20                       | L2DAT[7]                  | F20                       | L2CLK                     | G20                       | L2DAT[1]                  | H20                       |

Table 40. 400-Ball PBGA Pin Assignments  (Continued)

| PinName   | Pin No.   | PinName   | (See Footnotes 1 and 2)   | (See Footnotes 1 and 2)   | (See Footnotes 1 and 2)   | PinName   | Pin No.   |
|-----------|-----------|-----------|---------------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------|-----------|-----------|
| DATA[44]  | J01       | CLK_CFG_0 | K01                       | CLKIN                     | L01                       | AV DD     | M01       |
| DATA[43]  | J02       | DATA[46]  | K02                       | CLK_CFG_1                 | L02                       | CLK_CFG_3 | M02       |
| DATA[42]  | J03       | DATA[45]  | K03                       | AGND                      | L03                       | CLKOUT    | M03       |
| DATA[41]  | J04       | DATA[47]  | K04                       | CLK_CFG_2                 | L04                       | NC 2      | M04       |
| V DDEXT   | J05       | V DDEXT   | K05                       | V DDEXT                   | L05                       | V DDEXT   | M05       |
| V DDINT   | J06       | V DDINT   | K06                       | V DDINT                   | L06                       | V DDINT   | M06       |
| GND       | J07       | GND       | K07                       | GND                       | L07                       | GND       | M07       |
| GND       | J08       | GND       | K08                       | GND                       | L08                       | GND       | M08       |
| GND       | J09       | GND       | K09                       | GND                       | L09                       | GND       | M09       |
| GND       | J10       | GND       | K10                       | GND                       | L10                       | GND       | M10       |
| GND       | J11       | GND       | K11                       | GND                       | L11                       | GND       | M11       |
| GND       | J12       | GND       | K12                       | GND                       | L12                       | GND       | M12       |
| GND       | J13       | GND       | K13                       | GND                       | L13                       | GND       | M13       |
| GND       | J14       | GND       | K14                       | GND                       | L14                       | GND       | M14       |
| V DDINT   | J15       | V DDINT   | K15                       | V DDINT                   | L15                       | V DDINT   | M15       |
| V DDEXT   | J16       | V DDEXT   | K16                       | V DDEXT                   | L16                       | V DDEXT   | M16       |
| L2DAT[2]  | J17       | BR6       | K17                       | BR2                       | L17                       | PAGE      | M17       |
| L2DAT[0]  | J18       | BR5       | K18                       | BR1                       | L18                       | SBTS      | M18       |
| HBG       | J19       | BR4       | K19                       | ACK                       | L19                       | PA        | M19       |
| HBR       | J20       | BR3       | K20                       | REDY                      | L20                       | L3DAT[7]  | M20       |
| NC        | N01       | DATA[49]  | P01                       | DATA[53]                  | R01                       | DATA[56]  | T01       |
| NC        | N02       | DATA[50]  | P02                       | DATA[54]                  | R02                       | DATA[58]  | T02       |
| DATA[48]  | N03       | DATA[52]  | P03                       | DATA[57]                  | R03                       | DATA[59]  | T03       |
| DATA[51]  | N04       | DATA[55]  | P04                       | DATA[60]                  | R04                       | DATA[63]  | T04       |
| V DDEXT   | N05       | V DDEXT   | P05                       | V DDEXT                   | R05                       | V DDEXT   | T05       |
| V DDINT   | N06       | V DDINT   | P06                       | V DDINT                   | R06                       | V DDINT   | T06       |
| GND       | N07       | GND       | P07                       | GND                       | R07                       | V DDINT   | T07       |
| GND       | N08       | GND       | P08                       | GND                       | R08                       | V DDINT   | T08       |
| GND       | N09       | GND       | P09                       | GND                       | R09                       | V DDINT   | T09       |
| GND       | N10       | GND       | P10                       | GND                       | R10                       | V DDINT   | T10       |
| GND       | N11       | GND       | P11                       | GND                       | R11                       | V DDINT   | T11       |
| GND       | N12       | GND       | P12                       | GND                       | R12                       | V DDINT   | T12       |
| GND       | N13       | GND       | P13                       | GND                       | R13                       | V DDINT   | T13       |
| GND       | N14       | GND       | P14                       | GND                       | R14                       | V DDINT   | T14       |
| V DDINT   | N15       | V DDINT   | P15                       | GND                       | R15                       | V DDINT   | T15       |
| V DDEXT   | N16       | V DDEXT   | P16                       | V DDEXT                   | R16                       | V DDEXT   | T16       |
| L3DAT[5]  | N17       | L3DAT[2]  | P17                       | L4DAT[5]                  | R17                       | L4DAT[3]  | T17       |
| L3DAT[6]  | N18       | L3DAT[1]  | P18                       | L4DAT[6]                  | R18                       | L4ACK     | T18       |
| L3DAT[4]  | N19       | L3DAT[3]  | P19                       | L4DAT[7]                  | R19                       | L4CLK     | T19       |
| L3CLK     | N20       | L3ACK     | P20                       | L3DAT[0]                  | R20                       | L4DAT[4]  | T20       |
| DATA[61]  |           | ADDR[4]   | V01                       | ADDR[5]                   | W01                       | ADDR[8]   | Y01       |
| DATA[62]  | U01 U02   | ADDR[6]   | V02                       | ADDR[9]                   | W02                       | ADDR[11]  | Y02       |
| ADDR[3]   | U03       | ADDR[7]   | V03                       | ADDR[12]                  | W03                       | ADDR[13]  | Y03       |
| ADDR[2]   | U04       | ADDR[10]  | V04                       | ADDR[15]                  | W04                       | ADDR[16]  | Y04       |
| V DDEXT   | U05       | ADDR[14]  | V05                       | ADDR[17]                  | W05                       | ADDR[19]  | Y05       |
| V DDEXT   | U06       | ADDR[18]  | V06                       | ADDR[20]                  | W06                       | ADDR[21]  | Y06       |

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

Table 40. 400-Ball PBGA Pin Assignments  (Continued)

| (See Footnotes 1 and 2)   | (See Footnotes 1 and 2)   | (See Footnotes 1 and 2)   | (See Footnotes 1 and 2)   | (See Footnotes 1 and 2)   | (See Footnotes 1 and 2)   | (See Footnotes 1 and 2)   | (See Footnotes 1 and 2)   |
|---------------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------|
| PinName                   | Pin No.                   | PinName                   | Pin No.                   | PinName                   | Pin No.                   | PinName                   | Pin No.                   |
| V DDEXT                   | U07                       | ADDR[22]                  | V07                       | ADDR[23]                  | W07                       | ADDR[24]                  | Y07                       |
| V DDEXT                   | U08                       | ADDR[25]                  | V08                       | ADDR[26]                  | W08                       | ADDR[27]                  | Y08                       |
| V DDEXT                   | U09                       | ADDR[28]                  | V09                       | ADDR[29]                  | W09                       | ADDR[30]                  | Y09                       |
| V DDEXT                   | U10                       | ID0                       | V10                       | ID1                       | W10                       | ADDR[31]                  | Y10                       |
| V DDEXT                   | U11                       | ADDR[1]                   | V11                       | ADDR[0]                   | W11                       | ID2                       | Y11                       |
| V DDEXT                   | U12                       | MS1                       | V12                       | BMS                       | W12                       | BRST                      | Y12                       |
| V DDEXT                   | U13                       | CS                        | V13                       | MS2                       | W13                       | MS0                       | Y13                       |
| V DDEXT                   | U14                       | RDL                       | V14                       | CIF                       | W14                       | MS3                       | Y14                       |
| V DDEXT                   | U15                       | DMAR2                     | V15                       | RDH                       | W15                       | WRH                       | Y15                       |
| V DDEXT                   | U16                       | L5DAT[0]                  | V16                       | DMAG2                     | W16                       | WRL                       | Y16                       |
| L5DAT[7]                  | U17                       | L5DAT[2]                  | V17                       | LBOOT                     | W17                       | DMAG1                     | Y17                       |
| L4DAT[0]                  | U18                       | L5ACK                     | V18                       | L5DAT[1]                  | W18                       | DMAR1                     | Y18                       |
| L4DAT[1]                  | U19                       | L5DAT[4]                  | V19                       | L5DAT[3]                  | W19                       | EBOOT                     | Y19                       |
| L4DAT[2]                  | U20                       | L5DAT[6]                  | V20                       | L5DAT[5]                  | W20                       | L5CLK                     | Y20                       |

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

Figure 40. ADSP-21160M 400-Ball PBGA Pin Configurations (Bottom View, Summary)

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

Figure 41. ADSP-21160N 400-Ball PBGA Pin Configurations (Bottom View, Summary)

<!-- image -->

## OUTLINE DIMENSIONS

The ADSP-21160x processors are available in a 27 mm × 27 mm, 400-ball PBGA lead-free package.

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

DETAIL A

Figure 42. 400-Ball Plastic Grid Array (PBGA) (B-400) Compliant to JEDEC Standards MS-034-BAL-2 (Dimensions in Millimeters)

## SURFACE-MOUNT DESIGN

The following table is provided as an aide to PCB design. For industry-standard design recommendations, refer to IPC-7351, Generic Requirements for Surface-Mount Design and Land Pattern Standard .

| Package                    | Ball Attach Type          | Solder Mask Opening   | Ball Pad Size   |
|----------------------------|---------------------------|-----------------------|-----------------|
| 400-Ball Grid Array (PBGA) | Solder Mask Defined (SMD) | 0.63 mmdiameter       | 0.76 mmdiameter |

## ADSP-21160M/ADSP-21160N

## ORDERING GUIDE

| Model              | Notes   | Temperature Range   | Instruction Rate   | On-Chip SRAM   | Package Description                     | Package Option   |
|--------------------|---------|---------------------|--------------------|----------------|-----------------------------------------|------------------|
| ADSP-21160MKBZ-80  | 1       | 0°C to +85°C        | 80 MHz             | 4Mbits         | 400-Ball Plastic Ball Grid Array (PBGA) | B-400            |
| ADSP-21160MKB-80   |         | 0°C to +85°C        | 80 MHz             | 4Mbits         | 400-Ball Plastic Ball Grid Array (PBGA) | B-400            |
| ADSP-21160NCBZ-100 | 1       | -40°C to +100°C     | 100 MHz            | 4Mbits         | 400-Ball Plastic Ball Grid Array (PBGA) | B-400            |
| ADSP-21160NCB-100  |         | -40°C to +100°C     | 100 MHz            | 4Mbits         | 400-Ball Plastic Ball Grid Array (PBGA) | B-400            |
| ADSP-21160NKBZ-100 | 1       | 0°C to +85°C        | 100 MHz            | 4Mbits         | 400-Ball Plastic Ball Grid Array (PBGA) | B-400            |

1 Z = RoHS Compliant Part.

<!-- image -->