<!-- lastmod 2025-09-05 -->
<!-- image -->

## SHARC Processors

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## SUMMARY

High performance 32-bit/40-bit floating point processor optimized for high performance audio processing Single-instruction, multiple-data (SIMD) computational architecture

On-chip memory-3M bits of on-chip SRAM

Code compatible with all other members of the SHARC family

The ADSP-2136x processors are available with up to 333 MHz core instruction rate with unique audiocentric peripherals such as the digital applications interface, S/PDIF transceiver, DTCP (digital transmission content protection protocol), serial ports, precision clock generators, and more. For complete ordering information, see Ordering Guide on Page 56.

## DEDICATED AUDIO COMPONENTS

S/PDIF-compatible digital audio receiver/transmitter 8 channels of asynchronous sample rate converters (SRC) 16 PWM outputs configured as four groups of four outputs ROM-based security features include:

JTAG access to memory permitted with a 64-bit key Protected memory regions that can be assigned to limit access under program control to sensitive code

PLL has a wide variety of software and hardware multiplier/divider ratios

Available in 136-ball CSP\_BGA and 144-lead LQFP\_EP packages

Figure 1. Functional Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

SHARC and the SHARC logo are registered trademarks of Analog Devices, Inc.

## Rev. J

## Document Feedback

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable. However,  no  responsibility  is  assumed  by  Analog  Devices  for  its  use,  nor  for  any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## TABLE OF CONTENTS

| Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                         | . 1                                      |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|
| Dedicated Audio Components . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                            | . 1                                      |
| General Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                         | . 3                                      |
| SHARC Family Core Architecture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                                        | . 4                                      |
| Family Peripheral Architecture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                                | . 6                                      |
| I/O Processor Features . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                  | . 8                                      |
| System Design . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                     | . 8                                      |
| Development Tools . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                               | . 9                                      |
| Additional Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                      | 10                                       |
| Related Signal Chains . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                   | 10                                       |
| Pin Function Descriptions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                     | 11                                       |
| Specifications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                              | 14                                       |
| Operating Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                    | 14                                       |
| Electrical Characteristics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                    | 15                                       |
| Package Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                   | 16                                       |
| REVISION HISTORY                                                                                                                                                                            |                                          |
| 7/13-Revision I to Revision J                                                                                                                                                               |                                          |
| Updated Development Tools                                                                                                                                                                   | .......................................9 |
| Added Nominal Value column in Operating Conditions . .                                                                                                                                      | 14                                       |
| Changed Max values in Table 30 in Pulse-Width Modulation Generators . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . | 35                                       |
| Updated Ordering Guide . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                  | 56                                       |

ESD Caution  ......................................................  16

Maximum Power Dissipation .................................  16

Absolute Maximum Ratings ...................................  16

Timing Specifications ...........................................  16

Output Drive Currents  .........................................  46

Test Conditions  ..................................................  46

Capacitive Loading  ..............................................  46

Thermal Characteristics  ........................................  47

144-Lead LQFP\_EP Pin Configurations  .......................  48

136-Ball BGA Pin Configurations ...............................  50

Package Dimensions  ...............................................  53

Surface-Mount Design ..........................................  54

Automotive Products  ..............................................  55

Ordering Guide  .....................................................  56

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## GENERAL DESCRIPTION

The ADSP-2136x SHARC ® processor is a member of the SIMD SHARC family of DSPs that feature Analog Devices, Inc., Super Harvard Architecture. The processor is source code-compatible with the ADSP-2126x and ADSP-2116x DSPs, as well as with first generation ADSP-2106x SHARC processors in SISD (single-instruction, single-data) mode. The ADSP-2136x are 32-/40-bit floating-point processors optimized for high performance automotive audio applications. They contain a large on-chip SRAM and ROM, multiple internal buses to eliminate I/O bottlenecks, and an innovative digital audio interface (DAI).

As shown in the functional block diagram on Page 1, the ADSP-2136x uses two computational units to deliver a significant performance increase over the previous SHARC processors on a range of signal processing algorithms. With its SIMD computational hardware, the ADSP-2136x can perform two GFLOPS running at 333 MHz.

Table 2. ADSP-2136x Family Features

| Feature                | ADSP-21362   | ADSP-21363   | ADSP-21364   | ADSP-21365   | ADSP-21366   |
|------------------------|--------------|--------------|--------------|--------------|--------------|
| RAM                    | 3Mbit        | 3Mbit        | 3Mbit        | 3Mbit        | 3Mbit        |
| ROM                    | 4Mbit        | 4Mbit        | 4Mbit        | 4Mbit        | 4Mbit        |
| Audio Decoders inROM 1 | No           | No           | No           | Yes          | Yes          |
| Pulse-Width Modulation | Yes          | Yes          | Yes          | Yes          | Yes          |
| S/PDIF                 | Yes          | No           | Yes          | Yes          | Yes          |
| DTCP 2                 | Yes          | No           | No           | Yes          | No           |
| SRC SNR Performance    | -128 dB      | No SRC       | -140 dB      | -128 dB      | -128 dB      |

The diagram on Page 1 shows the two clock domains that make up the ADSP-2136x processors. The core clock domain contains the following features:

- Two processing elements, each of which comprises an ALU, multiplier, shifter, and data register file
- Data address generators (DAG1, DAG2)
- Program sequencer with instruction cache
- PM and DM buses capable of supporting four 32-bit data transfers between memory and the core at every core processor cycle
- One periodic interval timer with pinout
- On-chip SRAM (3M bit)
- On-chip mask-programmable ROM (4M bit)
- JTAG test access port for emulation and boundary scan. The JTAG provides software debug through user breakpoints, which allow flexible exception handling.

The diagram on Page 1 also shows the following architectural features:

- I/O processor that handles 32-bit DMA for the peripherals
- Six full duplex serial ports
- Two SPI-compatible interface ports-primary on dedicated pins, secondary on DAI pins
- 8-bit or 16-bit parallel port that supports interfaces to offchip memory peripherals
- Digital audio interface that includes two precision clock generators (PCG), an input data port with eight serial interfaces (IDP), an S/PDIF receiver/transmitter, 8-channel asynchronous sample rate converter (ASRC), DTCP cipher, six serial ports, a 20-bit parallel input data port (PDAP), 10 interrupts, six flag outputs, six flag inputs, three timers, and a flexible signal routing unit (SRU)

Table 1 shows performance benchmarks for these devices.

Table 2 shows the features of the individual product offerings.

Table 1. Benchmarks (at 333 MHz)

| Benchmark Algorithm                             | Speed (at 333 MHz)   |
|-------------------------------------------------|----------------------|
| 1024 Point Complex FFT (Radix 4, with reversal) | 27.9 µs              |
| FIR Filter (per tap) 1                          | 1.5 ns               |
| IIR Filter (per biquad) 1                       | 6.0 ns               |
| Matrix Multiply (pipelined) [3×3] × [3×1]       | 13.5 ns              |
| [4×4] × [4×1]                                   | 23.9 ns              |
| Divide (y/x)                                    | 10.5 ns              |
| Inverse Square Root                             | 16.3 ns              |

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## SHARC FAMILY CORE ARCHITECTURE

The ADSP-2136x is code-compatible at the assembly level with the ADSP-2126x, ADSP-21160, and ADSP-21161, and with the first generation ADSP-2106x SHARC processors. The ADSP-2136x shares architectural features with the ADSP-2126x and ADSP-2116x SIMD SHARC processors, as shown in Figure 2 and detailed in the following sections.

## SIMD Computational Engine

The processor contains two computational processing elements that operate as a single-instruction, multiple-data (SIMD) engine. The processing elements are referred to as PEX and PEY and each contains an ALU, multiplier, shifter, and register file. PEX is always active, and PEY can be enabled by setting the PEYEN mode bit in the MODE1 register. When this mode is enabled, the same instruction is executed in both processing elements, but each processing element operates on different data. This architecture is efficient at executing math intensive signal processing algorithms.

Entering SIMD mode also has an effect on the way data is transferred between memory and the processing elements. When in SIMD mode, twice the data bandwidth is required to sustain computational operation in the processing elements. Because of this requirement, entering SIMD mode also doubles the bandwidth between memory and the processing elements. When using the DAGs to transfer data in SIMD mode, two data values are transferred with each access of memory or the register file.

## Independent, Parallel Computation Units

Within each processing element is a set of computational units. The computational units consist of an arithmetic/logic unit (ALU), multiplier, and shifter. These units perform all operations in a single cycle. The three units within each processing element are arranged in parallel, maximizing computational throughput. Single multifunction instructions execute parallel ALU and multiplier operations. In SIMD mode, the parallel ALU and multiplier operations occur in both processing elements. These computation units support IEEE 32-bit, single-precision floating-point, 40-bit extended-precision floating-point, and 32-bit fixed-point data formats.

Figure 2. SHARC Core Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

## Data Register File

Each processing element contains a general-purpose data register file. The register files transfer data between the computation units and the data buses, and store intermediate results. These 10-port, 32-register (16 primary, 16 secondary) files, combined with the ADSP-2136x enhanced Harvard architecture, allow unconstrained data flow between computation units and internal memory. The registers in PEX are referred to as R0-R15 and in PEY as S0-S15.

## Context Switch

Many of the processor's registers have secondary registers that can be activated during interrupt servicing for a fast context switch. The data registers in the register file, the DAG registers, and the multiplier result register all have secondary registers. The primary registers are active at reset, while the secondary registers are activated by control bits in a mode control register.

## Universal Registers

The universal registers are general purpose registers. The USTAT (4) registers allow easy bit manipulations (Set, Clear, Toggle, Test, XOR) for all system registers (control/status) of the core.

The data bus exchange register (PX) permits data to be passed between the 64-bit PM data bus and the 64-bit DM data bus, or between the 40-bit register file and the PM/DM data bus. These registers contain hardware to handle the data width difference.

## Timer

A core timer that can generate periodic software interrupts. The core timer can be configured to use FLAG3 as a timer expired signal.

## Single-Cycle Fetch of Instruction and Four Operands

The processor features an enhanced Harvard architecture in which the data memory (DM) bus transfers data and the program memory (PM) bus transfers both instructions and data (see Figure 2). With the its separate program and data memory buses and on-chip instruction cache, the processor can simultaneously fetch four operands (two over each data bus) and one instruction (from the cache), all in a single cycle.

## Instruction Cache

The processor includes an on-chip instruction cache that enables three-bus operation for fetching an instruction and four data values. The cache is selective-only the instructions whose fetches conflict with PM bus data accesses are cached. This cache allows full-speed execution of core looped operations such as digital filter multiply-accumulates, and FFT butterfly processing.

## Data Address Generators with Zero-Overhead Hardware Circular Buffer Support

The processor's two data address generators (DAGs) are used for indirect addressing and implementing circular data buffers in hardware. Circular buffers allow efficient programming of delay lines and other data structures required in digital signal

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

processing, and are commonly used in digital filters and Fourier transforms. The two DAGs contain sufficient registers to allow the creation of up to 32 circular buffers (16 primary register sets, 16 secondary). The DAGs automatically handle address pointer wraparound, reduce overhead, increase performance, and simplify implementation. Circular buffers can start and end at any memory location.

## Flexible Instruction Set

The 48-bit instruction word accommodates a variety of parallel operations for concise programming. For example, the processor can conditionally execute a multiply, an add, and a subtract in both processing elements while branching and fetching up to four 32-bit values from memory-all in a single instruction.

## On-Chip Memory

The processor contains 3M bits of internal SRAM and 4M bits of internal ROM. Each block can be configured for different combinations of code and data storage (see Table 3). Each memory block supports single-cycle, independent accesses by the core processor and I/O processor. The processor's memory architecture, in combination with its separate on-chip buses, allows two data transfers from the core and one from the I/O processor, in a single cycle.

The SRAM can be configured as a maximum of 96K words of 32-bit data, 192K words of 16-bit data, 64K words of 48-bit instructions (or 40-bit data), or combinations of different word sizes up to 3M bits. All of the memory can be accessed as 16-bit, 32-bit, 48-bit, or 64-bit words. A 16-bit floating-point storage format is supported that effectively doubles the amount of data that can be stored on-chip. Conversion between the 32-bit floating-point and 16-bit floating-point formats is performed in a single instruction. While each memory block can store combinations of code and data, accesses are most efficient when one block stores data using the DM bus for transfers, and the other block stores instructions and data using the PM bus for transfers.

Using the DM bus and PM buses, with one bus dedicated to each memory block, assures single-cycle execution with two data transfers. In this case, the instruction must be available in the cache.

## On-Chip Memory Bandwidth

The internal memory architecture allows three accesses at the same time to any of the four blocks, assuming no block conflicts. The total bandwidth is gained with DMD and PMD buses (2 × 64-bits, core CLK) and the IOD bus (32-bit, PCLK).

## ROM-Based Security

The processor has a ROM security feature that provides hardware support for securing user software code by preventing unauthorized reading from the internal code. When using this feature, the processor does not boot-load any external code, executing exclusively from internal ROM. Additionally, the processor is not freely accessible via the JTAG port. Instead, a unique 64-bit key, which must be scanned in through the JTAG

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

Table 3. ADSP-2136x Internal Memory Space

| IOP Registers 0x0000 0000-0003 FFFF   | IOP Registers 0x0000 0000-0003 FFFF                    | IOP Registers 0x0000 0000-0003 FFFF   | IOP Registers 0x0000 0000-0003 FFFF   |
|---------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|
| Long Word (64 Bits)                   | Extended Precision Normal or InstructionWord (48 Bits) | Normal Word (32 Bits)                 | Short Word(16 Bits)                   |
| Block0ROM 0x0004 0000-0x0004 7FFF     | Block0ROM 0x0008 0000-0x0008 AAA9                      | Block0ROM 0x0008 0000-0x0008 FFFF     | Block0ROM 0x0010 0000-0x0011 FFFF     |
| Reserved 0x0004 8000-0x0004 BFFF      |                                                        | Reserved 0x0009 0000-0x0009 7FFF      | Reserved 0x0012 0000-0x0012 FFFF      |
| Block 0 SRAM 0x0004 C000-0x0004 FFFF  | Block 0 SRAM 0x0009 0000-0x0009 5554                   | Block 0 SRAM 0x0009 8000-0x0009 FFFF  | Block 0 SRAM 0x0013 0000-0x0013 FFFF  |
| Block1ROM 0x0005 0000-0x0005 7FFF     | Block1ROM 0x000A 0000-0x000A AAA9                      | Block1ROM 0x000A 0000-0x000A FFFF     | Block1ROM 0x0014 0000-0x0015 FFFF     |
| Reserved 0x0005 8000-0x0005 BFFF      |                                                        | Reserved 0x000B 0000-0x000B 7FFF      | Reserved 0x0016 0000-0x0016 FFFF      |
| Block 1 SRAM 0x0005 C000-0x0005 FFFF  | Block 1 SRAM 0x000B 0000-0x000B 5554                   | Block 1 SRAM 0x000B 8000-0x000B FFFF  | Block 1 SRAM 0x0017 0000-0x0017 FFFF  |
| Block 2 SRAM 0x0006 0000-0x0006 1FFF  | Block 2 SRAM 0x000C 0000-0x000C 2AA9                   | Block 2 SRAM 0x000C 0000-0x000C 3FFF  | Block 2 SRAM 0x0018 0000-0x0018 7FFF  |
| Reserved 0x0006 2000-0x0006 FFFF      |                                                        | Reserved 0x000C 4000-0x000D FFFF      | Reserved 0x0018 8000-0x001B FFFF      |
| Block 3 SRAM 0x0007 0000-0x0007 1FFF  | Block 3 SRAM 0x000E 0000-0x000E 2AA9                   | Block 3 SRAM 0x000E 0000-0x000E 3FFF  | Block 3 SRAM 0x001C 0000-0x001C 7FFF  |
| Reserved 0x0007 2000-0x0007 FFFF      |                                                        | Reserved 0x000E 4000-0x000F FFFF      | Reserved 0x001C 8000-0x001F FFFF      |
|                                       |                                                        |                                       | Reserved 0x0020 0000-0xFFFF FFFF      |

or test access port, is assigned to each customer. The device ignores a wrong key. Emulation features and external boot modes are only available after the correct key is scanned.

## FAMILY PERIPHERAL ARCHITECTURE

The ADSP-2136x family contains a rich set of peripherals that support a wide variety of applications, including high quality audio, medical imaging, communications, military, test equipment, 3D graphics, speech recognition, monitor control, imaging, and other applications.

## Parallel Port

The parallel port provides interfaces to SRAM and peripheral devices. The multiplexed address and data pins (AD15-0) can access 8-bit devices with up to 24 bits of address, or 16-bit devices with up to 16 bits of address. In either mode, 8-bit or 16-bit, the maximum data transfer rate is fPCLK/4.

DMA transfers are used to move data to and from internal memory. Access to the core is also facilitated through the parallel port register read/write functions. The RD, WR, and ALE (address latch enable) pins are the control pins for the parallel port.

## Serial Peripheral (Compatible) Interface

The processors contain two serial peripheral interface ports (SPIs). The SPI is an industry-standard synchronous serial link, enabling the processor's SPI-compatible port to communicate with other SPI-compatible devices. The SPI consists of two data pins, one device select pin, and one clock pin. It is a full-duplex synchronous serial interface, supporting both master and slave modes and can operate at a maximum baud rate of fPCLK/4.

The SPI port can operate in a multimaster environment by interfacing with up to four other SPI-compatible devices, either acting as a master or slave device. The ADSP-2136x SPIcompatible peripheral implementation also features programmable baud rate, clock phase, and polarities. The SPIcompatible port uses open drain drivers to support a multimaster configuration and to avoid data contention.

## Pulse-Width Modulation

The entire PWM module has four groups of four PWM outputs each. Therefore, this module generates 16 PWM outputs in total. Each PWM group produces two pairs of PWM signals on the four PWM outputs.

The PWM module is a flexible, programmable, PWM waveform generator that can be programmed to generate the required switching patterns for various applications related to motor and engine control or audio power control. The PWM generator can

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

generate either center-aligned or edge-aligned PWM waveforms. In addition, it can generate complementary signals on two outputs in paired mode or independent signals in nonpaired mode (applicable to a single group of four PWM waveforms).

The PWM generator is capable of operating in two distinct modes while generating center-aligned PWM waveforms: single update mode or double update mode. In single update mode, the duty cycle values are programmable only once per PWM period. This results in PWM patterns that are symmetrical about the midpoint of the PWM period. In double update mode, a second updating of the PWM registers is implemented at the midpoint of the PWM period. In this mode, it is possible to produce asymmetrical PWM patterns that produce lower harmonic distortion in 3-phase PWM inverters.

## Digital Audio Interface (DAI)

The digital audio interface (DAI) provides the ability to connect various peripherals to any of the DSP's DAI pins (DAI\_P20-1). Programs make these connections using the signal routing unit (SRU, shown in Figure 1).

The SRU is a matrix routing unit (or group of multiplexers) that enables the peripherals provided by the DAI to be interconnected under software control. This allows easy use of the DAI-associated peripherals for a wider variety of applications by using a larger set of algorithms than is possible with nonconfigurable signal paths.

The DAI includes six serial ports, an S/PDIF receiver/transmitter, a DTCP cipher, a precision clock generator (PCG), eight channels of asynchronous sample rate converters, an input data port (IDP), an SPI port, six flag outputs and six flag inputs, and three timers. The IDP provides an additional input path to the ADSP-2136x core, configurable as either eight channels of I 2 S serial data or as seven channels plus a single 20-bit wide synchronous parallel data acquisition port. Each data channel has its own DMA channel that is independent from the processor's serial ports.

## Serial Ports

The processor features six synchronous serial ports that provide an inexpensive interface to a wide variety of digital and mixedsignal peripheral devices such as Analog Devices' AD183x family of audio codecs, ADCs, and DACs. The serial ports are made up of two data lines, a clock, and a frame sync and they can operate at maximum fPCLK/4. The data lines can be programmed to either transmit or receive and each data line has a dedicated DMA channel.

Serial ports are enabled via 12 programmable and simultaneous receive or transmit pins that support up to 24 transmit or 24 receive channels of audio data when all six SPORTs are enabled, or six full duplex TDM streams of 128 channels per frame.

Serial port data can be automatically transferred to and from on-chip memory via dedicated DMA channels. Each of the serial ports can work in conjunction with another serial port to provide TDM support. One SPORT provides two transmit signals while the other SPORT provides the two receive signals. The frame sync and clock are shared.

Serial ports operate in four modes:

- Standard DSP serial mode
- Multichannel (TDM) mode
- I 2 S mode
- Left-justified sample pair mode

## S/PDIF-Compatible Digital Audio Receiver/Transmitter

The S/PDIF transmitter has no separate DMA channels. It receives audio data in serial format and converts it into a biphase encoded signal. The serial data input to the transmitter can be formatted as left-justified, I 2 S, or right-justified with word widths of 16, 18, 20, or 24 bits.

The serial data, clock, and frame sync inputs to the S/PDIF transmitter are routed through the signal routing unit (SRU). They can come from a variety of sources such as the SPORTs, external pins, the precision clock generators (PCGs), or the sample rate converters (SRC) and are controlled by the SRU control registers.

## Digital Transmission Content Protection (DTCP)

The DTCP specification defines a cryptographic protocol for protecting audio entertainment content from illegal copying, intercepting, and tampering as it traverses high performance digital buses, such as the IEEE 1394 standard. Only legitimate entertainment content delivered to a source device via another approved copy protection system (such as the DVD content scrambling system) is protected by this copy protection system. This feature is available on the ADSP-21362 and ADSP-21365 processors only. Licensing through DTLA is required for these products. Visit www.dtcp.com for more information.

## Memory-to-Memory (MTM)

If the DTCP module is not used, the memory-to-memory DMA module allows internal memory copies for a standard DMA.

## Synchronous/Asynchronous Sample Rate Converter (SRC)

The sample rate converter (SRC) contains four SRC blocks and is the same core as that used in the AD1896 192 kHz stereo asynchronous sample rate converter and provides up to 140 dB SNR. The SRC block is used to perform synchronous or asynchronous sample rate conversion across independent stereo channels, without using internal processor resources. The four SRC blocks can also be configured to operate together to convert multichannel audio data without phase mismatches. Finally, the SRC is used to clean up audio data from jittery clock sources such as the S/PDIF receiver.

The S/PDIF and SRC are not available on the ADSP-21363 models.

## Input Data Port (IDP)

The IDP provides up to eight serial input channels-each with its own clock, frame sync, and data inputs. The eight channels are automatically multiplexed into a single 32-bit by eight-deep FIFO. Data is always formatted as a 64-bit frame and divided into two 32-bit words. The serial protocol is designed to receive

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

audio channels in I2S, left-justified sample pair, or right-justified mode. One frame sync cycle indicates one 64-bit left/right pair, but data is sent to the FIFO as 32-bit words (that is, onehalf of a frame at a time). The processor supports 24- and 32-bit I 2 S, 24- and 32-bit left-justified, and 24-, 20-, 18- and 16-bit right-justified formats.

## Precision Clock Generator (PCG)

The precision clock generators (PCG) consist of two units, each of which generates a pair of signals (clock and frame sync) derived from a clock input signal. The units, A and B, are identical in functionality and operate independently of each other. The two signals generated by each unit are normally used as a serial bit clock/frame sync pair.

## Peripheral Timers

The following three general-purpose timers can generate periodic interrupts and be independently set to operate in one of three modes:

- Pulse waveform generation mode
- Pulse width count/capture mode
- External event watchdog mode

Each general-purpose timer has one bidirectional pin and four registers that implement its mode of operation: a 6-bit configuration register, a 32-bit count register, a 32-bit period register, and a 32-bit pulse width register. A single control and status register enables or disables all three general-purpose timers independently.

## I/O PROCESSOR FEATURES

The processor's I/O provides many channels of DMA and controls the extensive set of peripherals described in the previous sections.

## DMA Controller

The processor's on-chip DMA controllers allow data transfers without processor intervention. The DMA controller operates independently and invisibly to the processor core, allowing DMA operations to occur while the core is simultaneously executing its program instructions. DMA transfers can occur between the processor's internal memory and its serial ports, the SPI-compatible (serial peripheral interface) ports, the IDP (input data port), the parallel data acquisition port (PDAP), or the parallel port (PP). See Table 4.

Table 4. DMA Channels

| Peripheral        |   ADSP-2136x |
|-------------------|--------------|
| SPORTs            |           12 |
| IDP/PDAP          |            8 |
| SPI               |            2 |
| MTM/DTCP          |            2 |
| Parallel Port     |            1 |
| Total DMAChannels |           25 |

## SYSTEM DESIGN

The following sections provide an introduction to system design options and power supply issues.

## Program Booting

The internal memory of the processor boots at system power-up from an 8-bit EPROM via the parallel port, an SPI master, an SPI slave, or an internal boot. Booting is determined by the boot configuration (BOOT\_CFG1-0) pins in Table 5. Selection of the boot source is controlled via the SPI as either a master or slave device, or it can immediately begin executing from ROM.

Table 5. Boot Mode Selection

|   BOOT_CFG1-0 | BootingMode                                                         |
|---------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|
|            00 | SPI Slave Boot                                                      |
|            01 | SPI Master Boot                                                     |
|            10 | Parallel Port Boot via EPROM                                        |
|            11 | No booting occurs. Processor executes from internal ROMafter reset. |

## Phase-Locked Loop

The processors use an on-chip phase-locked loop (PLL) to generate the internal clock for the core. On power-up, the CLK\_CFG1-0 pins are used to select ratios of 32:1, 16:1, and 6:1. After booting, numerous other ratios can be selected via software control.

The ratios are made up of software configurable numerator values from 1 to 64 and software configurable divisor values of 1, 2, 4, and 8.

## Power Supplies

The processor has a separate power supply connection for the internal (VDDINT), external (VDDEXT), and analog (AVDD/AVSS) power supplies. The internal and analog supplies must meet the 1.2 V requirement for K, B, and Y grade models, and the 1.0 V requirement for Y models. (For information on the temperature ranges offered for this product, see Operating Conditions on Page 14, Package Information on Page 16, and Ordering Guide on Page 56.) The external supply must meet the 3.3 V requirement. All external supply pins must be connected to the same power supply.

Note that the analog supply pin (AVDD) powers the processor's internal clock generator PLL. To produce a stable clock, it is recommended that PCB designs use an external filter circuit for the AVDD pin. Place the filter components as close as possible to the AVDD/AVSS pins. For an example circuit, see Figure 3. (A recommended ferrite chip is the muRata BLM18AG102SN1D.) To reduce noise coupling, the PCB should use a parallel pair of power and ground planes for VDDINT and GND. Use wide traces to connect the bypass capacitors to the analog power (AVDD) and ground (AVSS) pins. Note that the AVDD and AVSS pins specified in Figure 3 are inputs to the processor and not the analog ground plane on the board-the AVSS pin should connect directly to digital ground (GND) at the chip.

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

Figure 3. Analog Power (AVDD) Filter Circuit

<!-- image -->

## Target Board JTAG Emulator Connector

Analog Devices' DSP Tools product line of JTAG emulators uses the IEEE 1149.1 JTAG test access port of the processor to monitor and control the target board processor during emulation. Analog Devices' DSP Tools product line of JTAG emulators provides emulation at full processor speed, allowing inspection and modification of memory, registers, and processor stacks. The processor's JTAG interface ensures that the emulator does not affect target system loading or timing.

For complete information on Analog Devices' SHARC DSP Tools product line of JTAG emulator operation, refer to the appropriate emulator user's guide.

## DEVELOPMENT TOOLS

Analog Devices supports its processors with a complete line of software and hardware development tools, including integrated development environments (which include CrossCore ® Embedded Studio and/or VisualDSP++ ® ), evaluation products, emulators, and a wide variety of software add-ins.

## Integrated Development Environments (IDEs)

For C/C++ software writing and editing, code generation, and debug support, Analog Devices offers two IDEs.

The newest IDE, CrossCore Embedded Studio, is based on the Eclipse TM framework. Supporting most Analog Devices processor families, it is the IDE of choice for future processors, including multicore devices. CrossCore Embedded Studio seamlessly integrates available software add-ins to support real time operating systems, file systems, TCP/IP stacks, USB stacks, algorithmic software modules, and evaluation hardware board support packages. For more information visit www.analog.com/cces.

The other Analog Devices IDE, VisualDSP++, supports processor families introduced prior to the release of CrossCore Embedded Studio. This IDE includes the Analog Devices VDK real time operating system and an open source TCP/IP stack. For more information visit www.analog.com/visualdsp. Note that VisualDSP++ will not support future Analog Devices processors.

## EZ-KIT Lite Evaluation Board

For processor evaluation, Analog Devices provides wide range of EZ-KIT Lite ® evaluation boards. Including the processor and key peripherals, the evaluation board also supports on-chip emulation capabilities and other evaluation and development features. Also available are various EZ-Extenders ® , which are daughter cards delivering additional specialized functionality, including audio and video processing. For more information visit www.analog.com and search on 'ezkit' or 'ezextender'.

## EZ-KIT Lite Evaluation Kits

For a cost-effective way to learn more about developing with Analog Devices processors, Analog Devices offer a range of EZKIT Lite evaluation kits. Each evaluation kit includes an EZ-KIT Lite evaluation board, directions for downloading an evaluation version of the available IDE(s), a USB cable, and a power supply. The USB controller on the EZ-KIT Lite board connects to the USB port of the user's PC, enabling the chosen IDE evaluation suite to emulate the on-board processor in-circuit. This permits the customer to download, execute, and debug programs for the EZ-KIT Lite system. It also supports in-circuit programming of the on-board Flash device to store user-specific boot code, enabling standalone operation. With the full version of CrossCore Embedded Studio or VisualDSP++ installed (sold separately), engineers can develop software for supported EZKITs or any custom system utilizing supported Analog Devices processors.

## Software Add-Ins for CrossCore Embedded Studio

Analog Devices offers software add-ins which seamlessly integrate with CrossCore Embedded Studio to extend its capabilities and reduce development time. Add-ins include board support packages for evaluation hardware, various middleware packages, and algorithmic modules. Documentation, help, configuration dialogs, and coding examples present in these add-ins are viewable through the CrossCore Embedded Studio IDE once the add-in is installed.

## Board Support Packages for Evaluation Hardware

Software support for the EZ-KIT Lite evaluation boards and EZExtender daughter cards is provided by software add-ins called Board Support Packages (BSPs). The BSPs contain the required drivers, pertinent release notes, and select example code for the given evaluation hardware. A download link for a specific BSP is located on the web page for the associated EZ-KIT or EZExtender product. The link is found in the Product Download area of the product web page.

## Middleware Packages

Analog Devices separately offers middleware add-ins such as real time operating systems, file systems, USB stacks, and TCP/IP stacks. For more information see the following web pages:

- www.analog.com/ucos3
- www.analog.com/ucfs
- www.analog.com/ucusbd
- www.analog.com/lwip

## Algorithmic Modules

To speed development, Analog Devices offers add-ins that perform popular audio and video processing algorithms. These are available for use with both CrossCore Embedded Studio and

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

VisualDSP++. For more information visit www.analog.com and search on 'Blackfin software modules' or 'SHARC software modules'.

## Designing an Emulator-Compatible DSP Board (Target)

For embedded system test and debug, Analog Devices provides a family of emulators. On each JTAG DSP, Analog Devices supplies an IEEE 1149.1 JTAG Test Access Port (TAP). In-circuit emulation is facilitated by use of this JTAG interface. The emulator accesses the processor's internal features via the processor's TAP, allowing the developer to load code, set breakpoints, and view variables, memory, and registers. The processor must be halted to send data and commands, but once an operation is completed by the emulator, the DSP system is set to run at full speed with no impact on system timing. The emulators require the target board to include a header that supports connection of the DSP's JTAG port to the emulator.

For details on target board design issues including mechanical layout, single processor connections, signal buffering, signal termination, and emulator pod logic, see the Engineer-to-Engineer Note 'Analog Devices JTAG Emulation Technical Reference' (EE-68) on the Analog Devices website (www.analog.com)-use site search on 'EE-68.' This document is updated regularly to keep pace with improvements to emulator support.

## ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

This data sheet provides a general overview of the processor's architecture and functionality. For detailed information on the ADSP-2136x family core architecture and instruction set, refer to the ADSP-2136x SHARC Processor Hardware Reference and the ADSP-2136x SHARC Processor Programming Reference .

## RELATED SIGNAL CHAINS

A signal chain is a series of signal-conditioning electronic components that receive input (data acquired from sampling either real-time phenomena or from stored data) in tandem, with the output of one portion of the chain supplying input to the next. Signal chains are often used in signal processing applications to gather and process data or to apply system controls based on analysis of real-time phenomena. For more information about this term and related topics, see the 'signal chain' entry in the Glossary of EE Terms on the Analog Devices website.

Analog Devices eases signal processing system development by providing signal processing components that are designed to work together well. A tool for viewing relationships between specific applications and related components is available on the www.analog.com website.

The Circuits from the Lab TM  site (http://www.analog.com/signalchains) provides:

- Graphical circuit block diagram presentation of signal chains for a variety of circuit types and applications
- Drill down links for components in each chain to selection guides and application information
- Reference designs applying best practice design techniques

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## PIN FUNCTION DESCRIPTIONS

The processor's pin definitions are listed below. Inputs identified as synchronous (S) must meet timing requirements with respect to CLKIN (or with respect to TCK for TMS and TDI).

Table 6. Pin Descriptions

| Pin                       | Type       | State During and After Reset          | Function                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|---------------------------|------------|---------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| AD15-0                    | I/O/T (pu) | Three-state with pull-up enabled      | Parallel Port Address/Data. The ADSP-2136x parallel port and its correspondingDMA unit output addressesanddataforperipheralsonthesemultiplexed pins. Themultiplex state is determined by the ALE pin. The parallel port can operate in either 8-bit or 16-bit mode. Each ADpin has a 22.5 kΩ internal pull-up resistor. For details about the ADpin operation, refer to the ADSP-2136x SHARCProcessor Hardware Reference . For8-bitmode:ALEisautomaticallyassertedwheneverachangeoccursintheupper16 external address bits, ADDR23-8; ALE is used in conjunction with an external latch to retain the values of the ADDR23-8. FordetailedinformationonI/Ooperationsandpinmultiplexing,refertothe ADSP-2136x SHARCProcessor Hardware Reference . |
| RD                        | O (pu)     | Three-state, driven high 1            | ParallelPortReadEnable. RDisasserted lowwhenevertheprocessorreads8-bit or 16- bit data from an external memory device. When AD15-0 are flags, this pin remains deasserted. RD has a 22.5 kΩ internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| WR                        | O (pu)     | Three-state, driven high 1            | Parallel Port Write Enable. WRis asserted low whenever the processor writes 8-bit or 16-bit data to an external memory device. When AD15-0 are flags, this pin remains deasserted. WRhas a 22.5 kΩ internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ALE                       | O (pd)     | Three-state, driven low 1             | Parallel Port Address Latch Enable. ALE is asserted whenever the processor drives a new address on the parallel port address pins. On reset, ALE is active high. However, it can be reconfigured using software to be active low. When AD15-0 are flags, this pin remains deasserted. ALE has a 20 kΩ internal pull-down resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| FLAG[0]/IRQ0/SPI FLG[0]   | I/O        | FLAG[0] INPUT                         | FLAG0/Interrupt Request0/SPI0 Slave Select.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| FLAG[1]/IRQ1/SPI FLG[1]   | I/O        | FLAG[1] INPUT                         | FLAG1/Interrupt Request1/SPI1 Slave Select.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| FLAG[2]/IRQ2/SPI FLG[2]   | I/O        | FLAG[2] INPUT                         | FLAG2/Interrupt Request 2/SPI2 Slave Select .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| FLAG[3]/TMREXP/ SPIFLG[3] | I/O        | FLAG[3] INPUT                         | FLAG3/Timer Expired/SPI3 Slave Select.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| DAI_P20-1                 | I/O/T (pu) | Three-state with programmable pull-up | Digital Audio Interface Pins . These pins provide the physical interface to the SRU. The SRU configuration registers define the combination of on-chip peripheral inputs or outputsconnectedtothepinandtothepin'soutputenable.Theconfigurationregisters of these peripherals then determine the exact behavior of the pin. Any input or output signal present in the SRU can be routed to any of these pins. The SRU provides the connection from the serial ports, input data port, precision clock generators andtimers, sample rate converters and SPI to the DAI_P20-1 pins. These pins have internal 22.5kΩ pull-up resistors that are enabled on reset. These pull-ups can be disabled using the DAI_PIN_PULLUP register.                |

The following symbols appear in the Type column of Table 6: A = asynchronous, G = ground, I = input, O = output, P = power supply, S = synchronous, ( A/D ) = active drive, ( O/D ) = open drain, and T = three-state, ( pd ) = pull-down resistor, ( pu ) = pull-up resistor.

Inputs identified as asynchronous (A) can be asserted asynchronously to CLKIN (or to TCK for TRST). Tie or pull unused inputs to VDDEXT or GND, except for the following: DAI\_Px, SPICLK, MISO, MOSI, EMU, TMS, TRST, TDI, and AD15-0. Note : These pins have pull-up resistors.

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

Table 6. Pin Descriptions (Continued)

| Pin             | Type           | State During and After Reset                                           | Function                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|-----------------|----------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| SPICLK          | I/O (pu)       | Three-state with pull-up enabled, driven high in SPI- master boot mode | Serial Peripheral Interface Clock Signal. Driven by the master, this signal controls the rate at which data is transferred. The master can transmit data at a variety of baud rates. SPICLK cycles once for each bit transmitted. SPICLK is a gated clock active during data transfers,onlyforthelengthofthetransferredword.Slavedevicesignoretheserialclock if the slave select input is driven inactive (high). SPICLK is used to shift out and shift in the data driven on theMISOand MOSI lines. The data is always shifted out on one clock edge and sampled on the opposite edge of the clock. Clock polarity and clock phase relativetodataareprogrammableintotheSPICTLcontrolregisteranddefinethetransfer format. SPICLK has a 22.5 kΩ internal pull-up resistor.                                          |
| SPIDS           | I              | Input only                                                             | SerialPeripheralInterfaceSlaveDeviceSelect. Anactivelowsignalusedtoselectthe processor as an SPI slave device. This input signal behaves like a chip select, and is providedbythemasterdevicefortheslavedevices.Inmultimastermodetheprocessor's SPIDS signal can be driven by a slave device to signal to the processor (as SPI master) that an error has occurred, as someother device is also trying to bethe master device. If asserted lowwhenthedeviceisinmastermode,itisconsideredamultimaster error. For a single-master, multiple-slave configuration where flag pins are used, this pin must be tied or pulled high to V DDEXT on the master device. For processor to processor SPI inter- action, any of the master processor's flag pins can be used to drive the SPIDS signal on the SPI slave device. |
| MOSI            | I/O (O/D) (pu) | Three-state with pull-up enabled, driven low in SPI- master boot mode  | SPI Master Out Slave In. If the ADSP-2136x is configured as a master, the MOSI pin becomes a data transmit (output) pin, transmitting output data. If the processor is configured as a slave, the MOSI pin becomes a data receive (input) pin, receiving input data. In an SPI interconnection, the data is shifted out from the MOSI output pin of the masterandshiftedintotheMOSIinput(s)oftheslave(s).MOSIhasa22.5kΩinternalpull- up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| MISO            | I/O (O/D) (pu) | Three-state with pull-up enabled                                       | SPI Master In Slave Out. If the ADSP-2136x is configured as a master, the MISO pin becomes a data receive (input) pin, receiving input data. If the processor is configured as a slave, the MISOpinbecomesadatatransmit(output) pin, transmitting output data. In an SPI interconnection, the data is shifted out from the MISO output pin of the slave and shifted into the MISO input pin of the master. MISO has a 22.5 kΩ internal pull-up resistor. MISO can be configured as O/D by setting the OPD bit in the SPICTL register. Note: Only one slave is allowed to transmit data at any given time. To enable broadcast transmission to multiple SPI slaves, the processor's MISO pin can be disabled by setting Bit 5 (DMISO) of the SPICTL register equal to 1.                                            |
| CLKIN           | I              | Input only                                                             | Local Clock In. Used in conjunction with XTAL. CLKIN is the ADSP-2136x clock input. It configures the ADSP-2136xtouseeither its internal clock generator or anexternal clock source. Connecting the necessary components to CLKIN and XTAL enables the internal clock generator. Connecting the external clock to CLKIN while leaving XTAL uncon- nected configures the processors to use the external clock source such as an external clockoscillator.ThecoreisclockedeitherbythePLLoutputorthisclockinputdepending on the CLK_CFG1-0 pin settings. CLKIN should not be halted, changed, or operated below the specified frequency.                                                                                                                                                                              |
| XTAL CLK_CFG1-0 | O I            | Output only 2 Input only                                               | CrystalOscillatorTerminal. UsedinconjunctionwithCLKINtodriveanexternalcrystal. Core to CLKINRatioControl. These pins set the start upclock frequency. Note that the operating frequency can be changed by programming the PLL multiplier and divider in the PMCTLregister at any time after the core comes out of reset. The allowed values are: 00 = 6:1 01 = 32:1 10 = 16:1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |

) = pull-up resistor.

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## Table 6. Pin Descriptions (Continued)

| Pin               | Type        | State During and After Reset     | Function                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|-------------------|-------------|----------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| BOOT_CFG1-0       | I           | Input only                       | Boot Configuration Select. This pin is used to select the boot mode for the processor. The BOOT_CFGpins must be valid before reset is asserted. For a description of the boot mode, refer to Table 5, Boot Mode Selection.                                                                                                                          |
| RESETOUT RESET    | O I/A       | Output only Input only           | Reset Out. Drives out the core reset signal to an external device. Processor Reset. Resets the ADSP-2136x to a knownstate. Upondeassertion, there is a 4096 CLKIN cycle latency for the PLL to lock. After this time, the core begins program execution from the hardware reset vector address. The RESET input must be asserted (low) at power-up. |
| TCK               | I           | Input only 3                     | Test Clock (JTAG). Provides a clock for JTAG boundary scan. TCK must be asserted (pulsed low) after power-up or held low for proper operation of the processors.                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| TMS               | I/S (pu)    | Three-state with pull-up enabled | Test ModeSelect (JTAG). Used to control the test state machine. TMS has a 22.5 kΩ internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| TDI               | I/S (pu)    | Three-state with pull-up enabled | Test Data Input (JTAG). Provides serial data for the boundary scan logic. TDI has a 22.5 kΩ internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| TDO               | O           | Three-state 4                    | Test Data Output (JTAG). Serial scan output of the boundary scan path.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| TRST              | I/A (pu)    | Three-state with pull-up enabled | Test Reset (JTAG). Resets the test state machine. TRST must be asserted (pulsed low) after power-up or held low for proper operation of the ADSP-2136x. TRST has a 22.5 kΩ internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                               |
| EMU               | O(O/D) (pu) | Three-state with pull-up enabled | Emulation Status. Must be connected to the processor's JTAG emulators target board connector only.EMU has a 22.5 kΩ internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| V DDINT V DDEXT A | P P         |                                  | Core Power Supply. Supplies the processor's core. I/O Power Supply. Analog PowerSupply. Supplies the processor's internal PLL (clock generator). This pin                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| VDD               | P           |                                  | hasthesamespecificationsasV DDINT ,exceptthataddedfilteringcircuitryisrequired.For more information, see Power Supplies on Page 8. Power Supply Return.                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| A VSS             | G           |                                  | Analog                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| GND               | G           |                                  | Power Supply Return.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |

The following symbols appear in the Type column of Table 6: A = asynchronous, G = ground, I = input, O = output, P = power supply, S = synchronous, ( A/D ) = active drive, ( O/D ) = open drain, and T = three-state, ( pd ) = pull-down resistor, ( pu ) = pull-up resistor.

1 RD, WR, and ALE are three-stated (and not driven) only when RESET is active.

2 Output only is a three-state driver with its output path always enabled.

3 Input only is a three-state driver with both output path and pull-up disabled.

4 Three-state is a three-state driver with pull-up disabled.

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## SPECIFICATIONS

Specifications are subject to change without notice.

## OPERATING CONDITIONS

|              |                                         |      | K Grade   | K Grade       | B Grade   | B Grade   | B Grade       | YGrade   | YGrade   | YGrade        |      |
|--------------|-----------------------------------------|------|-----------|---------------|-----------|-----------|---------------|----------|----------|---------------|------|
| Parameter    | Description                             | Min  | Nom       | Max           | Min       | Nom       | Max           | Min      | Nom      | Max           | Unit |
| V DDINT      | Internal (Core) Supply Voltage          | 1.14 | 1.2       | 1.26          | 1.14      | 1.2       | 1.26          | 0.95     | 1.0      | 1.05          | V    |
| A VDD        | Analog (PLL) Supply Voltage             | 1.14 | 1.2       | 1.26          | 1.14      | 1.2       | 1.26          | 0.95     | 1.0      | 1.05          | V    |
| V DDEXT      | External (I/O) Supply Voltage           | 3.13 | 3.3       | 3.47          | 3.13      | 3.3       | 3.47          | 3.13     | 3.3      | 3.47          | V    |
| V IH 1       | High Level Input Voltage@ V DDEXT = Max | 2.0  |           | V DDEXT + 0.5 | 2.0       |           | V DDEXT + 0.5 | 2.0      |          | V DDEXT + 0.5 | V    |
| V IL 1       | Low Level Input Voltage@ V DDEXT = Min  | -0.5 |           | +0.8          | -0.5      |           | +0.8          | -0.5     |          | +0.8          | V    |
| V IH_CLKIN 2 | High Level Input Voltage@ V DDEXT = Max | 1.74 |           | V DDEXT + 0.5 | 1.74      |           | V DDEXT + 0.5 | 1.74     |          | V DDEXT + 0.5 | V    |
| V IL_CLKIN   | Low Level Input Voltage@ V DDEXT = Min  | -0.5 |           | +1.19         | -0.5      |           | +1.19         | -0.5     |          | +1.19         | V    |
| T J 3, 4     | Junction Temperature 136-Ball CSP_BGA   | 0    |           | +110          | -40       |           | +125          | -40      |          | +125          | °C   |
| T J 3, 4     | Junction Temperature 144-Lead LQFP_EP   | 0    |           | +110          | -40       |           | +125          | -40      |          | +125          | °C   |

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS

| Parameter       | Description                         | Test Conditions                           | Min   | Max   | Unit   |
|-----------------|-------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|-------|-------|--------|
| V OH 1          | High Level Output Voltage           | @V DDEXT = Min, I OH = -1.0mA 2           | 2.4   |       | V      |
| V OL 1          | Low Level Output Voltage            | @V DDEXT = Min, I OL = 1.0mA 2            |       | 0.4   | V      |
| I IH 3, 4       | High Level Input Current            | @V DDEXT = Max, V IN = V DDEXT Max        |       | 10    | µA     |
| I IL 3          | Low Level Input Current             | @V DDEXT = Max, V IN = 0 V                |       | 10    | µA     |
| I ILPU 4        | Low Level Input Current Pull-Up     | @V DDEXT = Max, V IN = 0 V                |       | 200   | µA     |
| I OZH 5, 6      | Three-State Leakage Current         | @V DDEXT = Max, V IN = V DDEXT Max        |       | 10    | µA     |
| I OZL 5         | Three-State Leakage Current         | @V DDEXT = Max, V IN = 0 V                |       | 10    | µA     |
| I OZLPU 6       | Three-State Leakage Current Pull-Up | @V DDEXT = Max, V IN = 0 V                |       | 200   | µA     |
| I DD-INTYP 7, 8 | Supply Current (Internal)           | t CCLK = Min, V DDINT =Nom                |       | 800   | mA     |
| I AVDD 9        | Supply Current (Analog)             | A VDD = Max                               |       | 10    | mA     |
| C IN 10, 11     | Input Capacitance                   | f IN = 1 MHz, T CASE = 25°C, V IN = 1.2 V |       | 4.7   | pF     |

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## PACKAGE INFORMATION

The information presented in Figure 4 provides details about the package branding for the ADSP-2136x processor. For a complete listing of product availability, see Ordering Guide on Page 56.

Figure 4. Typical Package Brand

<!-- image -->

Table 7. Package Brand Information

| Brand Key   | Field Description          |
|-------------|----------------------------|
| t           | Temperature Range          |
| pp          | Package Type               |
| Z           | RoHS Compliant Designation |
| cc          | See Ordering Guide         |
| vvvvvv.x    | Assembly Lot Code          |
| n.n         | Silicon Revision           |
| #           | RoHS Compliant Designation |
| yyww        | Date Code                  |

## ESD CAUTION

<!-- image -->

ESD  (electrostatic  discharge)  sensitive  device. Charged  devices  and  circuit  boards  can  discharge without detection. Although  this product features patented  or  proprietary  protection  circuitry,  damage may  occur  on  devices  subjected  to  high  energy  ESD. Therefore, proper ESD precautions should be taken to avoid  performance  degradation or loss of functionality.

## MAXIMUM POWER DISSIPATION

See the Engineer-to-Engineer Note 'Estimating Power for the ADSP-21362 SHARC Processors ' (EE-277) for detailed thermal and power information regarding maximum power dissipation. For information on package thermal specifications, see Thermal Characteristics on Page 47.

## ABSOLUTE MAXIMUM RATINGS

Stresses greater than those listed in Table 8 may cause permanent damage to the device. These are stress ratings only; functional operation of the device at these or any other conditions greater than those indicated in the operational sections of this specification is not implied. Exposure to absolute maximum rating conditions for extended periods may affect device reliability.

## Table 8. Absolute Maximum Ratings

| Parameter                                 | Rating               |
|-------------------------------------------|----------------------|
| Internal (Core) Supply Voltage (V DDINT ) | -0.3 V to +1.5 V     |
| Analog (PLL) Supply Voltage (A VDD )      | -0.3 V to +1.5 V     |
| External (I/O) Supply Voltage (V DDEXT )  | -0.3 V to +4.6 V     |
| Input Voltage                             | -0.5 V to +3.8 V     |
| Output Voltage Swing                      | -0.5VtoV DDEXT +0.5V |
| Load Capacitance                          | 200 pF               |
| Storage Temperature Range                 | -65°C to +150°C      |
| Junction Temperature While Biased         | 125°C                |

## TIMING SPECIFICATIONS

Use the exact timing information given. Do not attempt to derive parameters from the addition or subtraction of others. While addition or subtraction would yield meaningful results for an individual device, the values given in this data sheet reflect statistical variations and worst cases. Consequently, it is not meaningful to add parameters to derive longer times. For voltage reference levels, see Figure 39 on Page 46 under Test Conditions.

Switching Characteristics specify how the processor changes its signals. Circuitry external to the processor must be designed for compatibility with these signal characteristics. Switching characteristics describe what the processor will do in a given circumstance. Use switching characteristics to ensure that any timing requirement of a device connected to the processor (such as memory) is satisfied.

Timing Requirements apply to signals that are controlled by circuitry external to the processor, such as the data input for a read operation. Timing requirements guarantee that the processor operates correctly with other devices.

## Core Clock Requirements

The processor's internal clock (a multiple of CLKIN) provides the clock signal for timing internal memory, processor core, and serial ports. During reset, program the ratio between the processor's internal clock frequency and external (CLKIN) clock frequency with the CLK\_CFG1-0 pins.

The processor's internal clock switches at higher frequencies than the system input clock (CLKIN). To generate the internal clock, the processor uses an internal phase-locked loop (PLL, see Figure 5). This PLL-based clocking minimizes the skew between the system clock (CLKIN) signal and the processor's internal clock.

## Voltage Controlled Oscillator

In application designs, the PLL multiplier value should be selected in such a way that the VCO frequency never exceeds fVCO specified in Table 11.

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

- The product of CLKIN and PLLM must never exceed 1/2 fVCO (max) in Table 11 if the input divider is not enabled (INDIV = 0).
- The product of CLKIN and PLLM must never exceed fVCO (max) in Table 11 if the input divider is enabled (INDIV = 1).

The VCO frequency is calculated as follows:

fVCO = 2 × PLLM × fINPUT fCCLK = (2 × PLLM × fINPUT ) ÷ (2 × PLLN )

where:

fVCO = VCO output

PLLM = Multiplier value programmed in the PMCTL register. During reset, the PLLM value is derived from the ratio selected using the CLK\_CFG pins in hardware.

PLLN = 1, 2, 4, 8 based on the PLLD value programmed on the PMCTL register. During reset this value is 1.

fINPUT = Input frequency to the PLL.

fINPUT = CLKIN when the input divider is disabled or fINPUT = CLKIN ÷ 2 when the input divider is enabled

Note the definitions of the clock periods that are a function of CLKIN and the appropriate ratio control shown in Table 9. All of the timing specifications for the ADSP-2136x peripherals are defined in relation to tPCLK. Refer to the peripheral specific section for each peripheral's timing information.

Table 9. Clock Periods

| Timing Requirements   | Description                          |
|-----------------------|--------------------------------------|
| t CK                  | CLKIN Clock Period                   |
| t CCLK                | Processor Core Clock Period          |
| t PCLK                | Peripheral Clock Period = 2 × t CCLK |

Figure 5 shows core to CLKIN relationships with external oscillator or crystal. The shaded divider/multiplier blocks denote where clock ratios can be set through hardware or software using the power management control register (PMCTL). For more information, refer to the ADSP-2136x SHARC Processor Hardware Reference .

Figure 5. Core Clock and System Clock Relationship to CLKIN

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## Power-Up Sequencing

The timing requirements for processor startup are given in Table 10. Note that during power-up, when the VDDINT power supply comes up after VDDEXT, a leakage current of the order of three-state leakage current pull-up, pull-down, may be observed on any pin, even if that is an input only (for example the RESET pin) until the VDDINT rail has powered up.

Table 10. Power-Up Sequencing Timing Requirements (Processor Startup)

| Parameter                | Min                                          | Max                      | Unit   |
|--------------------------|----------------------------------------------|--------------------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements      |                                              |                          |        |
| t RSTVDD                 | RESET Low Before V DDINT /V DDEXT On         | 0                        | ns     |
| t IVDDEVDD V             | DDINT On Before V DDEXT -50                  | +200                     | ms     |
| t CLKVDD 1               | CLKIN Valid After V DDINT /V DDEXT Valid     | 0 200                    | ms     |
| t CLKRST                 | CLKIN Valid Before RESET Deasserted          | 10 2                     | µs     |
| t PLLRST PLL             | Control Setup Before RESET Deasserted        | 20                       | µs     |
| Switching Characteristic |                                              |                          |        |
| t CORERST                | Core Reset Deasserted After RESET Deasserted | 4096t CK + 2 t CCLK 3, 4 |        |

Figure 6. Power-Up Sequencing

<!-- image -->

## Clock Input

## Table 11. Clock Input

| Parameter           | Parameter                        | Min   | 200MHz 1 Max   | Min   | 333MHz 2 Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------|----------------------------------|-------|----------------|-------|----------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements | Timing Requirements              |       |                |       |                |        |
| t CK                | CLKIN Period                     | 30 3  | 100            | 18    | 100            | ns     |
| t CKL               | CLKIN Width Low                  | 12.5  |                | 7.5   |                | ns     |
| t CKH               | CLKIN Width High                 | 12.5  |                | 7.5   |                | ns     |
| t CKRF              | CLKIN Rise/Fall (0.4 V to 2.0 V) |       | 3              |       | 3              | ns     |
| t CCLK 4            | CCLK Period                      | 5.0   | 10             | 3.0   | 10             | ns     |
| t VCO 5             | VCO Frequency                    | 200   | 600            | 200   | 800            | MHz    |
| t CKJ 6, 7          | CLKIN Jitter Tolerance           | -250  | +250           | -250  | +250           | ps     |

Figure 7. Clock Input

<!-- image -->

Figure 8. Recommended Circuit for Fundamental Mode Crystal Operation

<!-- image -->

## Clock Signals

The processor can use an external clock or a crystal. Refer to the CLKIN pin description in Table 6 on Page 11. The user application program can configure the processor to use its internal clock generator by connecting the necessary components to the CLKIN and XTAL pins. Figure 8 shows the component connections used for a fundamental frequency crystal operating in parallel mode.

Note that the clock rate is achieved using a 16.67 MHz crystal and a PLL multiplier ratio 16:1. (CCLK:CLKIN achieves a clock speed of 266.72 MHz.) To achieve the full core clock rate, programs need to configure the multiplier bits in the PMCTL register.

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## Reset

Table 12. Reset

| Parameter           | Min      | Unit   |
|---------------------|----------|--------|
| Timing Requirements |          |        |
| t WRST 1            | 4 × t CK | ns     |
| t SRST              | 8        | ns     |

Figure 9. Reset

<!-- image -->

## Interrupts

The following timing specification applies to the FLAG0, FLAG1, and FLAG2 pins when they are configured as IRQ0, IRQ1, and IRQ2 interrupts.

## Table 13. Interrupts

Figure 10. Interrupts

| Parameter          | Min           | Unit   |
|--------------------|---------------|--------|
| Timing Requirement |               |        |
| t IPW              | 2 × t PCLK +2 | ns     |

<!-- image -->

## Core Timer

The following timing specification applies to FLAG3 when it is configured as the core timer (TMREXP pin).

## Table 14. Core Timer

Figure 11. Core Timer

| Parameter                | Min            | Unit   |
|--------------------------|----------------|--------|
| Switching Characteristic |                |        |
| t WCTIM                  | 2 × t PCLK - 1 | ns     |

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## Timer PWM\_OUT Cycle Timing

The following timing specification applies to Timer0, Timer1, and Timer2 in PWM\_OUT (pulse-width modulation) mode. Timer signals are routed to the DAI\_P20-1 pins through the SRU. Therefore, the timing specifications provided below are valid at the DAI\_P20-1 pins.

## Table 15. Timer PWM\_OUT Timing

Figure 12. Timer PWM\_OUT Timing

| Parameter                       | Min            | Max                     | Unit   |
|---------------------------------|----------------|-------------------------|--------|
| Switching Characteristic        |                |                         |        |
| t PWMO Timer Pulse Width Output | 2 × t PCLK - 1 | 2 × (2 31 - 1) × t PCLK | ns     |

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## Timer WDTH\_CAP Timing

The following timing specification applies to Timer0, Timer1, and Timer2 in WDTH\_CAP (pulse width count and capture) mode. Timer signals are routed to the DAI\_P20-1 pins through the SRU. Therefore, the timing specification provided below are valid at the DAI\_P20-1 pins.

## Table 16. Timer Width Capture Timing

Figure 13. Timer Width Capture Timing

| Parameter               | Min        | Max                     | Unit   |
|-------------------------|------------|-------------------------|--------|
| Timing Requirement      |            |                         |        |
| t PWI Timer Pulse Width | 2 × t PCLK | 2 × (2 31 - 1) × t PCLK | ns     |

<!-- image -->

## DAI Pin to Pin Direct Routing

For direct pin connections only (for example, DAI\_PB01\_I to DAI\_PB02\_O).

## Table 17. DAI Pin to Pin Routing

Figure 14. DAI Pin to Pin Direct Routing

| Parameter                                            | Min   | Max   | Unit   |
|------------------------------------------------------|-------|-------|--------|
| Timing Requirement                                   |       |       |        |
| t DPIO Delay DAI Pin Input Valid to DAI Output Valid | 1.5   | 10    | ns     |

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## Precision Clock Generator (Direct Pin Routing)

This timing is only valid when the SRU is configured such that the precision clock generator (PCG) takes its inputs directly from the DAI pins (via pin buffers) and sends its outputs directly to the DAI pins. For the other cases, where the PCG's

Table 18. Precision Clock Generator (Direct Pin Routing)

| Parameter                 |                                                                         | Min                             | KandBGrade Max                 | YGrade Max             | Unit   |
|---------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|--------------------------------|------------------------|--------|
| Timing Requirement s      | Timing Requirement s                                                    |                                 |                                |                        |        |
| t PCGIP                   | Input Clock Period                                                      | t PCLK × 4                      |                                |                        | ns     |
| t STRIG                   | PCG Trigger Setup Before Falling Edge of PCG Input Clock                | 4.5                             |                                |                        | ns     |
| t HTRIG                   | PCG Trigger Hold After Falling Edge of PCG Input Clock                  | 3                               |                                |                        | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                                               |                                 |                                |                        |        |
| t DPCGIO                  | PCG Output Clock and Frame Sync Active Edge Delay After PCG Input Clock | 2.5                             | 10                             | 10                     | ns     |
| t DTRIGCLK                | PCG Output Clock Delay After PCG Trigger                                | 2.5 + (2.5 × t PCGIP )          | 10 + (2.5 × t PCGIP )          | 12 + (2.5 × t PCGIP )  | ns     |
| t DTRIGFS                 | PCG Frame Sync Delay After PCG Trigger                                  | 2.5 + ((2.5 + D-PH) × t PCGIP ) | 10 + ((2.5 + D-PH) × t PCGIP ) | 12+((2.5+D-PH)×t PCGIP | ns     |
| t PCGOP 1                 | Output Clock Period                                                     | 2 × t PCGIP - 1                 |                                |                        | ns     |

D = FSxDIV, PH = FSxPHASE. For more information, refer to the ADSP-2136x SHARC Processor Hardware Reference , 'Precision Clock Generators' chapter.

1 In normal mode, tPCGOP (min) = 2 × tPCGIP.

Figure 15. Precision Clock Generator (Direct Pin Routing)

<!-- image -->

inputs and outputs are not directly routed to/from DAI pins (via pin buffers) there is no timing data available. All timing parameters and switching characteristics apply to external DAI pins (DAI\_P01 through DAI\_P20).

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## Flags

The timing specifications provided below apply to the FLAG3-0 and DAI\_P20-1 pins, the parallel port, and the serial peripheral interface (SPI). See Table 6 on Page 11 for more information on flag use.

Table 19. Flags

| Parameter                | Min            | Unit   |
|--------------------------|----------------|--------|
| Timing Requirement       |                |        |
| t FIPW FLAG3-0           | 2 × t PCLK + 3 | ns     |
| Switching Characteristic |                |        |
| t FOPW FLAG3-0           | 2 × t PCLK - 1 | ns     |

Figure 16. Flags

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## Memory Read-Parallel Port

Use these specifications for asynchronous interfacing to memories (and memory-mapped peripherals) when the processor is accessing external memory space.

Table 20. 8-Bit Memory Read Cycle

| Parameter                 | K and BGrade                                      | Min Max          |                | Min              | YGrade Max     | Unit   |
|---------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|------------------|----------------|------------------|----------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       | Timing Requirements                               |                  |                |                  |                |        |
| t DRS                     | AD7-0 Data Setup Before RD High                   | 3.3              |                | 4.5              |                | ns     |
| t DRH                     | AD7-0 Data Hold After RD High                     | 0                |                | 0                |                | ns     |
| t DAD                     | AD15-8 Address to AD7-0 Data Valid                |                  | D+t PCLK - 5.0 |                  | D+t PCLK - 5.0 | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                         |                  |                |                  |                |        |
| t ALEW                    | ALE Pulse Width                                   | 2 × t PCLK - 2.0 |                | 2 × t PCLK - 2.0 |                | ns     |
| t ADAS 1                  | AD15-0 Address Setup Before ALE Deasserted        | t PCLK - 2.5     |                | t PCLK - 2.5     |                | ns     |
| t RRH                     | Delay Between RD Rising Edge to Next Falling Edge | H+t PCLK - 1.4   |                | H+t PCLK - 1.4   |                | ns     |
| t ALERW                   | ALE Deasserted to Read Asserted                   | 2 × t PCLK - 3.8 |                | 2 × t PCLK - 3.8 |                | ns     |
| t RWALE                   | Read Deasserted to ALE Asserted                   | F + H+0.5        |                | F + H+0.5        |                | ns     |
| t ADAH 1                  | AD15-0 Address Hold After ALE Deasserted          | t PCLK - 2.3     |                | t PCLK - 2.3     |                | ns     |
| t ALEHZ 1                 | ALE Deasserted to AD7-0 Address in High-Z         | t PCLK           | t PCLK + 3.0   | t PCLK           | t PCLK + 3.8   | ns     |
| t RW                      | RD Pulse Width                                    | D-2.0            |                | D-2.0            |                | ns     |
| t RDDRV                   | AD7-0 ALE Address Drive After Read High           | F+H+t PCLK - 2.3 |                | F+H+t PCLK -2.3  |                | ns     |
| t ADRH                    | AD15-8 Address Hold After RD High                 | H                |                | H                |                | ns     |
| t DAWH                    | AD15-8 Address to RD High                         | D+t PCLK - 4.0   |                | D+t PCLK - 4.0   |                | ns     |

<!-- image -->

NOTE: MEMORY READS ALWAYS OCCUR IN GROUPS OF FOUR BETWEEN ALE CYCLES. THIS FIGURE SHOWS ONLY TWO MEMORY READS TO PROVIDE THE NECESSARY TIMING INFORMATION.

Figure 17. Read Cycle for 8-Bit Memory Timing

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## Table 21. 16-Bit Memory Read Cycle

| Parameter                 |                                                   | KandBGrade Min   | Max          | Y Min            | Grade Max    | Unit   |
|---------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|------------------|--------------|------------------|--------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       | Timing Requirements                               |                  |              |                  |              |        |
| t DRS                     | AD15-0 Data Setup Before RD High                  | 3.3              |              | 4.5              |              | ns     |
| t DRH                     | AD15-0 Data Hold After RD High                    | 0                |              | 0                |              | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                         |                  |              |                  |              |        |
| t ALEW                    | ALE Pulse Width                                   | 2 × t PCLK - 2.0 |              | 2 × t PCLK - 2.0 |              | ns     |
| t ADAS 1                  | AD15-0 Address Setup Before ALE Deasserted        | t PCLK - 2.5     |              | t PCLK - 2.5     |              | ns     |
| t ALERW                   | ALE Deasserted to Read Asserted                   | 2 × t PCLK - 3.8 |              | 2 × t PCLK - 3.8 |              | ns     |
| t RRH 2                   | Delay Between RD Rising Edge to Next Falling Edge | H+t PCLK - 1.4   |              | H+t PCLK - 1.4   |              | ns     |
| t RWALE                   | Read Deasserted to ALE Asserted                   | F + H+0.5        |              | F + H+0.5        |              | ns     |
| t RDDRV                   | ALE Address Drive After Read High                 | F+H+t PCLK - 2.3 |              | F+H+t PCLK - 2.3 |              | ns     |
| t ADAH 1                  | AD15-0 Address Hold After ALE Deasserted          | t PCLK - 2.3     |              | t PCLK - 2.3     |              | ns     |
| t ALEHZ1                  | ALE Deasserted to Address/Data15-0 in High-Z      | t PCLK           | t PCLK + 3.0 | t PCLK           | t PCLK + 3.8 | ns     |
| t RW                      | RD Pulse Width                                    | D-2.0            |              | D-2.0            |              | ns     |

<!-- image -->

NOTE: FOR 16-BIT MEMORY READS, WHEN EMPP /H11014 0, ONLY ONE RD PULSE OCCURS BETWEEN ALE CYCLES. WHEN EMPP = 0, MULTIPLE RD PULSES OCCUR BETWEEN ALE CYCLES. FOR COMPLETE INFORMATION, SEE THE ADSP-2136x SHARC PROCESSOR HARDWARE REFERENCE.

Figure 18. Read Cycle for 16-Bit Memory Timing

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## Memory Write-Parallel Port

Use these specifications for asynchronous interfacing to memories (and memory-mapped peripherals) when the processor is accessing external memory space.

Table 22. 8-Bit Memory Write Cycle

| Parameter                 | K and BGrade Min                                              | YGrade Min       | Unit   |
|---------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|------------------|--------|
| Switching Characteristics |                                                               |                  |        |
| t ALEW                    | ALE Pulse Width 2 × t PCLK - 2.0                              | 2 × t PCLK - 2.0 | ns     |
| t ADAS 1                  | AD15-0 Address Setup Before ALE Deasserted t PCLK - 2.8       | t PCLK - 2.8     | ns     |
| t ALERW                   | ALE Deasserted to Write Asserted 2 × t PCLK - 3.8             | 2 × t PCLK - 3.8 | ns     |
| t RWALE                   | Write Deasserted to ALE Asserted H+0.5                        | H+0.5            | ns     |
| t WRH Delay               | Between WRRising Edge to Next WRFalling Edge F+H+t PCLK - 2.3 | F+H+t PCLK - 2.3 | ns     |
| t ADAH 1                  | AD15-0 Address Hold After ALE Deasserted t PCLK - 0.5         | t PCLK - 0.5     | ns     |
| t WW                      | WRPulse Width D-F-2.0                                         | D-F-2.0          | ns     |
| t ADWL                    | AD15-8 Address toWRLow t PCLK - 2.8                           | t PCLK - 3.5     | ns     |
| t ADWH                    | AD15-8 Address Hold After WRHigh H                            | H                | ns     |
| t DWS                     | AD7-0 Data Setup Before WRHigh D-F+t PCLK - 4.0               | D-F+t PCLK - 4.0 | ns     |
| t DWH                     | AD7-0 Data Hold After WRHigh H                                | H                | ns     |
| t DAWH                    | AD15-8 Address to WRHigh D-F+t PCLK - 4.0                     | D-F+t PCLK - 4.0 | ns     |

- F = 7 × t PCLK  (if FLASH\_MODE is set, else F = 0). If FLASH\_MODE is set, D must be  9 × t PCLK .

1 On reset, ALE is an active high cycle. However, it can be configured by software to be active low.

NOTE: MEMORY WRITES ALWAYS OCCUR IN GROUPS OF FOUR BETWEEN ALE CYCLES. THIS FIGURE SHOWS ONLY TWO MEMORY WRITES TO PROVIDE THE NECESSARY TIMING INFORMATION.

<!-- image -->

Figure 19. Write Cycle for 8-Bit Memory Timing

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## Table 23. 16-Bit Memory Write Cycle

| Parameter                 |                                                    | KandBGrade Y Grade Min   | Min              | Unit   |
|---------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|--------------------------|------------------|--------|
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                          |                          |                  |        |
| t ALEW                    | ALE Pulse Width                                    | 2 × t PCLK - 2.0         | 2 × t PCLK - 2.0 | ns     |
| t ADAS 1                  | AD15-0 Address Setup Before ALE Deasserted         | t PCLK - 2.5             | t PCLK - 2.5     | ns     |
| t ALERW                   | ALE Deasserted to Write Asserted                   | 2 × t PCLK - 3.8         | 2 × t PCLK - 3.8 | ns     |
| t RWALE                   | Write Deasserted to ALE Asserted                   | H+0.5                    | H+0.5            | ns     |
| t WRH 2                   | Delay Between WRRising Edge to Next WRFalling Edge | F+H+t PCLK - 2.3         | F+H+t PCLK - 2.3 | ns     |
| t ADAH 1                  | AD15-0 Address Hold After ALE Deasserted           | t PCLK - 2.3             | t PCLK - 2.3     | ns     |
| t WW                      | WRPulse Width                                      | D-F-2.0                  | D-F-2.0          | ns     |
| t DWS                     | AD15-0 Data Setup Before WRHigh                    | D-F+t PCLK - 4.0         | D-F+t PCLK - 4.0 | ns     |
| t DWH                     | AD15-0 Data Hold After WRHigh                      | H                        | H                | ns     |

<!-- image -->

NOTE: FOR 16-BIT MEMORY WRITES, WHEN EMPP  0, ONLY ONE WR PULSE OCCURS BETWEEN ALE CYCLES. WHEN EMPP = 0, MULTIPLE WR PULSES OCCUR BETWEEN ALE CYCLES. FOR COMPLETE INFORMATION, SEE THE ADSP-2136x SHARC PROCESSOR HARDWARE REFERENCE.

Figure 20. Write Cycle for 16-Bit Memory Timing

## Serial Ports

To determine whether communication is possible between two devices at clock speed n, the following specifications must be confirmed: 1) frame sync (FS) delay and frame sync setup and hold, 2) data delay and data setup and hold, and 3) serial clock (SCLK) width.

Table 24. Serial Ports-External Clock

| Parameter                 |                                                                                                   | Min                | KandBGrade Max   | Y Grade Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------|------------------|---------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       | Timing Requirements                                                                               |                    |                  |               |        |
| t SFSE 1                  | Frame Sync Setup Before SCLK (Externally Generated Frame Sync in Either Transmit or Receive Mode) | 2.5                |                  |               | ns     |
| t HFSE 1                  | Frame Sync Hold After SCLK (Externally Generated Frame Sync in Either Transmit or Receive Mode)   | 2.5                |                  |               | ns     |
| t SDRE 1                  | Receive Data Setup Before Receive SCLK                                                            | 2.5                |                  |               | ns     |
| t HDRE 1                  | Receive Data Hold After SCLK                                                                      | 2.5                |                  |               | ns     |
| t SCLKW                   | SCLK Width                                                                                        | (t PCLK × 4) ÷ 2 - | 2                |               | ns     |
| t SCLK                    | SCLK Period                                                                                       | t PCLK × 4         |                  |               | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                                                                         |                    |                  |               |        |
| t DFSE 2                  | Frame Sync Delay After SCLK (Internally Generated Frame Sync in Either Transmit or Receive Mode)  |                    | 9.5              | 11            | ns     |
| t HOFSE 2                 | Frame Sync Hold After SCLK (Internally Generated Frame Sync in Either Transmit or Receive Mode)   | 2                  |                  |               | ns     |
| t DDTE 2                  | Transmit Data Delay After Transmit SCLK                                                           |                    | 9.5              | 11            | ns     |
| t HDTE 2                  | Transmit Data Hold After Transmit SCLK                                                            | 2                  |                  |               | ns     |

Table 25. Serial Ports-Internal Clock

| Parameter                 |                                                                                                   | KandBGrade Min Max   | KandBGrade Min Max   | Y Grade Max    | Unit   |
|---------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------|----------------------|----------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       | Timing Requirements                                                                               |                      |                      |                |        |
| t SFSI 1                  | Frame Sync Setup Before SCLK (Externally Generated Frame Sync in Either Transmit or Receive Mode) | 7                    |                      |                | ns     |
| t HFSI 1                  | Frame Sync Hold After SCLK (Externally Generated Frame Sync in Either Transmit or Receive Mode)   | 2.5                  |                      |                | ns     |
| t SDRI 1                  | Receive Data Setup Before SCLK                                                                    | 7                    |                      |                | ns     |
| t HDRI 1                  | Receive Data Hold After SCLK                                                                      | 2.5                  |                      |                | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                                                                         |                      |                      |                |        |
| t DFSI 2                  | Frame Sync Delay After SCLK (Internally Generated Frame Sync in Transmit Mode)                    |                      | 3                    | 3.5            | ns     |
| t HOFSI 2                 | Frame Sync Hold After SCLK (Internally Generated Frame Sync in Transmit Mode)                     | -1.0                 |                      |                | ns     |
| t DFSIR 2                 | Frame Sync Delay After SCLK (Internally Generated Frame Sync in Receive Mode)                     |                      | 8                    | 9.5            | ns     |
| t HOFSIR 2                | Frame Sync Hold After SCLK (Internally Generated Frame Sync in Receive Mode)                      | -1.0                 |                      |                | ns     |
| t DDTI 2                  | Transmit Data Delay After SCLK                                                                    |                      | 3                    | 4.0            | ns     |
| t HDTI 2                  | Transmit Data Hold After SCLK                                                                     | -1.0                 |                      |                | ns     |
| t SCLKIW                  | Transmit or Receive SCLK Width                                                                    | 2 × t PCLK - 2       | 2 × t PCLK + 2       | 2 × t PCLK + 2 | ns     |

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

Serial port signals are routed to the DAI\_P20-1 pins using the SRU. Therefore, the timing specifications provided below are valid at the DAI\_P20-1 pins.

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

Figure 21. Serial Ports

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## Table 26. Serial Ports-External Late Frame Sync

| Parameter                 | Parameter                                                                                   | Min   | KandBGrade Max   | Y Grade Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------|------------------|---------------|--------|
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                                                                   |       |                  |               |        |
| t DDTLFSE 1               | Data Delay from Late External Transmit Frame Sync or External Receive FS with MCE = 1,MFD=0 |       | 9                | 10.5          | ns     |
| t DDTENFS 1               | Data Enable for MCE = 1,MFD=0                                                               | 0.5   |                  |               | ns     |

## EXTERNAL RECEIVE FS WITH MCE = 1, MFD = 0

Figure 22. External Late Frame Sync

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## Table 27. Serial Ports-Enable and Three-State

| Parameter                 | Parameter                                | Min   | KandBGrade Max   | Y Grade Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------------|------------------------------------------|-------|------------------|---------------|--------|
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                |       |                  |               |        |
| t DDTEN 1                 | Data Enable from External Transmit SCLK  | 2     |                  |               | ns     |
| t DDTTE 1                 | Data Disable from External Transmit SCLK |       | 7                | 8.5           | ns     |
| t DDTIN 1                 | Data Enable from Internal Transmit SCLK  | -1    |                  |               | ns     |

Figure 23. Enable and Three-State

<!-- image -->

## Input Data Port (IDP)

The timing requirements for the IDP are given in Table 28. IDP signals are routed to the DAI\_P20-1 pins using the SRU. Therefore, the timing specifications provided below are valid at the DAI\_P20-1 pins.

Table 28. IDP

| Parameter           | Min                                         | Unit   |
|---------------------|---------------------------------------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements | Timing Requirements                         |        |
| t SISFS 1           | Frame Sync Setup Before Clock Rising Edge 3 | ns     |
| t SIHFS 1           | Frame Sync Hold After Clock Rising Edge 3   | ns     |
| t SISD 1            | Data Setup Before Clock Rising Edge 3       | ns     |
| t SIHD 1            | Data Hold After Clock Rising Edge 3         | ns     |
| t IDPCLKW           | Clock Width (t                              | ns     |
| t IDPCLK            | Clock Period t PCLK                         | ns     |

Figure 24. IDP Master Timing

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## Parallel Data Acquisition Port (PDAP)

The timing requirements for the PDAP are provided in Table 29. PDAP is the parallel mode operation of Channel 0 of the IDP. For details on the operation of the IDP, refer to the ADSP-2136x SHARC Processor Hardware Reference , 'Input Data Port' chapter.

Table 29. Parallel Data Acquisition Port (PDAP)

| Parameter                 | Min                                                                             | Unit   |
|---------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       |                                                                                 |        |
| t SPCLKEN 1               | PDAP_CLKEN Setup Before PDAP_CLK Sample Edge 2.5                                | ns     |
| t HPCLKEN 1               | PDAP_CLKEN Hold After PDAP_CLK Sample Edge 2.5                                  | ns     |
| t PDSD 1                  | PDAP_DAT Setup Before SCLK PDAP_CLK Sample Edge 3.0                             | ns     |
| t PDHD 1                  | PDAP_DAT Hold After SCLK PDAP_CLK Sample Edge 2.5                               | ns     |
| t PDCLKW                  | Clock Width (t PCLK × 4) ÷ 2 - 3                                                | ns     |
| t PDCLK                   | Clock Period t PCLK × 4                                                         | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                                                       |        |
| t PDHLDD                  | Delay of PDAP Strobe After Last PDAP_CLK Capture Edge for a Word 2 × t PCLK - 1 | ns     |
| t PDSTRB                  | PDAP Strobe Pulse Width 2 × t PCLK - 1.5                                        | ns     |

Figure 25. PDAP Timing

<!-- image -->

Note that the most significant 16 bits of external 20-bit PDAP data can be provided through either the parallel port AD15-0 pins or the DAI\_P20-5 pins. The remaining 4 bits can only be sourced through DAI\_P4-1. The timing below is valid at the DAI\_P20-1 pins or at the AD15-0 pins.

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## Pulse-Width Modulation Generators

## Table 30. PWM Timing 1

| Parameter                 | Min              | Max                 | Unit   |
|---------------------------|------------------|---------------------|--------|
| Switching Characteristics |                  |                     |        |
| t PWMW PWMOutput          | t PCLK - 2       | (2 16 - 2) × t PCLK | ns     |
| t PWMP PWMOutput          | 2 × t PCLK - 1.5 | (2 16 - 1) × t PCLK | ns     |

Figure 26. PWM Timing

<!-- image -->

## Sample Rate Converter-Serial Input Port

The SRC input signals are routed from the DAI\_P20-1 pins using the SRU. Therefore, the timing specifications provided in Table 31 are valid at the DAI\_P20-1 pins. This feature is not available on the ADSP-21363 models.

## Table 31. SRC, Serial Input Port

| Parameter           | Min                                                | Unit   |
|---------------------|----------------------------------------------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements |                                                    |        |
| t SRCSFS 1          | Frame Sync Setup Before Serial Clock Rising Edge 3 | ns     |
| t SRCHFS 1          | Frame Sync Hold After Serial Clock Rising Edge 3   | ns     |
| t SRCSD 1           | SDATA Setup Before Serial Clock Rising Edge 3      | ns     |
| t SRCHD 1           | SDATA Hold After Serial Clock Rising Edge 3        | ns     |
| t SRCCLKW           | Clock Width 36                                     | ns     |
| t SRCCLK            | Clock Period 80                                    | ns     |

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

Figure 27. SRC Serial Input Port Timing

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## Sample Rate Converter-Serial Output Port

For the serial output port, the frame-sync is an input and should meet setup and hold times with regard to the serial clock on the output port. The serial data output has a hold time and delay

Table 32. SRC, Serial Output Port

| Parameter                 |                                                     | KandBGrade Min Max   | YGrade Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|----------------------|--------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       |                                                     |                      |              |        |
| t SRCSFS 1                | Frame Sync Setup Before Serial Clock Rising Edge    | 3                    |              | ns     |
| t SRCHFS 1                | Frame Sync Hold After Serial Clock Rising Edge      | 3                    |              | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics |                                                     |                      |              |        |
| t SRCTDD 1                | Transmit Data Delay After Serial Clock Falling Edge | 10.5                 | 12.5         | ns     |
| t SRCTDH 1                | Transmit Data Hold After Serial Clock Falling Edge  | 2                    |              | ns     |

Figure 28. SRC Serial Output Port Timing

<!-- image -->

specification with regard to serial clock. Note that the serial clock rising edge is the sampling edge and the falling edge is the drive edge.

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## S/PDIF Transmitter

Serial data input to the S/PDIF transmitter can be formatted as left justified, I 2 S, or right justified with word widths of 16-, 18-, 20-, or 24-bits. The following sections provide timing for the transmitter.

## S/PDIF Transmitter-Serial Input Waveforms

Figure 29 shows the right-justified mode. Frame sync is high for the left channel and low for the right channel. Data is valid on the rising edge of serial clock. The MSB is delayed the minimum in 24-bit output mode or the maximum in 16-bit output mode from a frame sync transition, so that when there are 64 serial clock periods per frame sync period, the LSB of the data is rightjustified to the next frame sync transition.

## Table 33. S/PDIF Transmitter Right-Justified Mode

Figure 29. Right-Justified Mode

| Parameter          | Nominal                                                     | Unit   |
|--------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| Timing Requirement |                                                             |        |
| t RJD              | FS to MSB Delay in Right-Justified Mode 16-Bit Word Mode 16 | SCLK   |
|                    | 18-Bit Word Mode 14                                         | SCLK   |
|                    | 20-Bit Word Mode 12                                         | SCLK   |
|                    | 24-Bit Word Mode 8                                          | SCLK   |

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

Figure 30 shows the default I 2 S-justified mode. The frame sync is low for the left channel and high for the right channel. Data is valid on the rising edge of serial clock. The MSB is left-justified to the frame sync transition but with a delay.

## Table 34. S/PDIF Transmitter I 2 S Mode

Figure 30. I 2 S-Justified Mode

| Parameter          | Nominal   | Unit   |
|--------------------|-----------|--------|
| Timing Requirement |           |        |
| t I2SD             | 1         | SCLK   |

<!-- image -->

Figure 31 shows the left-justified mode. The frame sync is high for the left channel and low for the right channel. Data is valid on the rising edge of serial clock. The MSB is left-justified to the frame sync transition with no delay.

Table 35. S/PDIF Transmitter Left-Justified Mode

| Parameter          | Nominal   | Unit   |
|--------------------|-----------|--------|
| Timing Requirement |           |        |
| t LJD              | 0         | SCLK   |

Figure 31. Left-Justified Mode

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## S/PDIF Transmitter Input Data Timing

The timing requirements for the S/PDIF transmitter are given in Table 36. Input signals are routed to the DAI\_P20-1 pins using the SRU. Therefore, the timing specifications provided below are valid at the DAI\_P20-1 pins.

## Table 36. S/PDIF Transmitter Input Data Timing

| Parameter           | Min                                              | KGrade Max   | YGrade Min Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------|--------------------------------------------------|--------------|------------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements |                                                  |              |                  |        |
| t SISFS 1           | Frame Sync Setup Before Serial Clock Rising Edge | 3            | 3                | ns     |
| t SIHFS 1           | Frame Sync Hold After Serial Clock Rising Edge   | 3            | 3                | ns     |
| t SISD 1            | Data Setup Before Serial Clock Rising Edge       | 3            | 3                | ns     |
| t SIHD 1            | Data Hold After Serial Clock Rising Edge         | 3            | 3                | ns     |
| t SITXCLKW          | Transmit Clock Width                             | 9            | 9.5              | ns     |
| t SITXCLK           | Transmit Clock Period                            | 20           | 20               | ns     |
| t SISCLKW           | Clock Width                                      | 36           | 36               | ns     |
| t SISCLK            | Clock Period                                     | 80           | 80               | ns     |

Figure 32. S/PDIF Transmitter Input Timing

<!-- image -->

## Oversampling Clock (TxCLK) Switching Characteristics

The S/PDIF transmitter requires an oversampling clock input. This high frequency clock (TxCLK) input is divided down to generate the internal biphase clock.

## Table 37. Oversampling Clock (TxCLK) Switching Characteristics

| Parameter                              | Max                                            | Unit   |
|----------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|--------|
| Frequency for TxCLK = 384 × Frame Sync | Oversampling Ratio × Frame Sync <= 1/t SITXCLK | MHz    |
| Frequency for TxCLK = 256 × Frame Sync | 49.2                                           | MHz    |
| Frame Rate (FS)                        | 192.0                                          | kHz    |

## S/PDIF Receiver

The following section describes timing as it relates to the S/PDIF receiver. This feature is not available on the ADSP-21363 processors.

## Internal Digital PLL Mode

In the internal digital phase-locked loop mode the internal PLL (digital PLL) generates the 512 × FS clock.

Table 38. S/PDIF Receiver Output Timing (Internal Digital PLL Mode)

| Parameter                 | Min                                      | Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------------|------------------------------------------|-------|--------|
| Switching Characteristics |                                          |       |        |
| t DFSI                    | Frame Sync Delay After Serial Clock      | 5     | ns     |
| t HOFSI                   | Frame Sync Hold After Serial Clock -2    |       | ns     |
| t DDTI                    | Transmit Data Delay After Serial Clock   | 5     | ns     |
| t HDTI                    | Transmit Data Hold After Serial Clock -2 |       | ns     |
| t SCLKIW 1                | Transmit Serial Clock Width 38           |       | ns     |

Figure 33. S/PDIF Receiver Internal Digital PLL Mode Timing

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## SPI Interface-Master

The processor contains two SPI ports. The primary has dedicated pins and the secondary is available through the DAI. The timing provided in Table 39 and Table 40 applies to both ports.

Table 39. SPI Interface Protocol-Master Switching and Timing Specifications

|                           |                                                                | KandBGrade     | Y Grade          |     | Unit   |
|---------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|----------------|------------------|-----|--------|
| Parameter                 |                                                                | Min Max        | Min              | Max |        |
| Timing Requirements       |                                                                |                |                  |     |        |
| t SSPIDM                  | Data Input Valid to SPICLK Edge (Data Input Setup Time)        | 5.2            | 6.2              |     | ns     |
| t SSPIDM                  | Data Input Valid to SPICLK Edge (Data Input Setup Time) (SPI2) | 8.2            | 9.5              |     | ns     |
| t HSPIDM                  | SPICLK Last Sampling Edge to Data Input Not Valid              | 2              | 2                |     | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics |                                                                |                |                  |     |        |
| t SPICLKM                 | Serial Clock Cycle                                             | 8 × t PCLK - 2 | 8 × t PCLK - 2   |     | ns     |
| t SPICHM                  | Serial Clock High Period                                       | 4 × t PCLK - 2 | 4 × t PCLK - 2   |     | ns     |
| t SPICLM                  | Serial Clock Low Period                                        | 4 × t PCLK - 2 | 4 × t PCLK - 2   |     | ns     |
| t DDSPIDM                 | SPICLK Edge to Data Out Valid (Data Out Delay Time)            | 3.0            |                  | 3.0 | ns     |
| t DDSPIDM                 | SPICLK Edge to Data Out Valid (Data Out Delay Time) (SPI2)     | 8.0            |                  | 9.5 | ns     |
| t HDSPIDM                 | SPICLK Edge to Data Out Not Valid (Data Out Hold Time)         | 4 × t PCLK - 2 | 4 × t PCLK - 2   |     | ns     |
| t SDSCIM                  | FLAG3-0IN (SPI Device Select) Low to First SPICLK Edge         | 4×t PCLK - 2.5 | 4 × t PCLK - 3.0 |     | ns     |
| t SDSCIM                  | FLAG3-0IN (SPI Device Select) Low to First SPICLK Edge (SPI2)  | 4×t PCLK - 2.5 | 4 × t PCLK - 3.0 |     | ns     |
| t HDSM                    | Last SPICLK Edge to FLAG3-0IN High                             | 4 × t PCLK - 2 | 4 × t PCLK - 2   |     | ns     |
| t SPITDM                  | Sequential Transfer Delay                                      | 4 × t PCLK - 1 | 4 × t PCLK - 1   |     | ns     |

Figure 34. SPI Master Timing

<!-- image -->

## SPI Interface-Slave

Table 40. SPI Interface Protocol-Slave Switching and Timing Specifications

| Parameter                 |                                                            | KandBGrade Min Max    | YGrade Max   |            | Unit   |
|---------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------|--------------|------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       | Timing Requirements                                        |                       |              |            |        |
| t SPICLKS                 | Serial Clock Cycle                                         | 4 × t PCLK - 2        |              |            | ns     |
| t SPICHS                  | Serial Clock High Period                                   | 2 × t PCLK - 2        |              |            | ns     |
| t SPICLS                  | Serial Clock Low Period                                    | 2 × t PCLK - 2        |              |            | ns     |
| t SDSCO                   | SPIDS Assertion to First SPICLK Edge CPHASE = 0 CPHASE = 1 | 2 × t PCLK 2 × t PCLK |              |            | ns ns  |
| t HDS                     | Last SPICLK Edge to SPIDS Not Asserted, CPHASE = 0         | 2 × t PCLK            |              |            | ns     |
| t SSPIDS                  | Data Input Valid to SPICLK Edge (Data Input Setup Time)    | 2                     |              |            | ns     |
| t HSPIDS                  | SPICLK Last Sampling Edge to Data Input Not Valid          | 2                     |              |            | ns     |
| t SDPPW                   | SPIDS Deassertion Pulse Width (CPHASE = 0)                 | 2 × t PCLK            |              |            | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                                  |                       |              |            |        |
| t DSOE                    | SPIDS Assertion to Data Out Active                         | 0                     | 5            | 5          | ns     |
| t DSOE 1                  | SPIDS Assertion to Data Out Active (SPI2)                  | 0                     | 8            | 9          | ns     |
| t DSDHI                   | SPIDS Deassertion to Data High Impedance                   | 0                     | 5            | 5.5        | ns     |
| t DSDHI 1                 | SPIDS Deassertion to Data High Impedance (SPI2)            | 0                     | 8.6          | 10         | ns     |
| t DDSPIDS                 | SPICLK Edge to Data Out Valid (Data Out Delay Time)        |                       | 9.5          | 11.0       | ns     |
| t HDSPIDS                 | SPICLK Edge to Data Out Not Valid (Data Out Hold Time)     | 2 × t PCLK            |              |            | ns     |
| t DSOV                    | SPIDS Assertion to Data Out Valid (CPHASE = 0)             |                       | 5 × t PCLK   | 5 × t PCLK | ns     |

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

Figure 35. SPI Slave Timing

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## JTAG Test Access Port and Emulation

Table 41. JTAG Test Access Port and Emulation

| Parameter                 |                                     | Min Max      | Unit   |
|---------------------------|-------------------------------------|--------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       | Timing Requirements                 |              |        |
| t TCK                     | TCK Period                          | t CK         | ns     |
| t STAP                    | TDI, TMS Setup Before TCK High      | 5            | ns     |
| t HTAP                    | TDI, TMS Hold After TCK High        | 6            | ns     |
| t SSYS 1                  | System Inputs Setup Before TCK High | 7            | ns     |
| t HSYS 1                  | System Inputs Hold After TCK High   | 18           | ns     |
| t TRSTW                   | TRST Pulse Width                    | 4 × t CK     | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics           |              |        |
| t DTDO                    | TDO Delay from TCK Low              | 7            | ns     |
| t DSYS 2                  | System Outputs Delay After TCK Low  | t CK ÷ 2 + 7 | ns     |

Figure 36. IEEE 1149.1 JTAG Test Access Port

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## OUTPUT DRIVE CURRENTS

Figure 37 shows typical I-V characteristics for the output drivers of the processor. The curves represent the current drive capability of the output drivers as a function of output voltage.

Figure 37. ADSP-2136x Typical Drive

<!-- image -->

## TEST CONDITIONS

The ac signal specifications (timing parameters) appear in Table 12 on Page 20 through Table 41 on Page 45. These include output disable time, output enable time, and capacitive loading. The timing specifications for the SHARC apply for the voltage reference levels in Figure 38.

Timing is measured on signals when they cross the 1.5 V level as described in Figure 39. All delays (in nanoseconds) are measured between the point that the first signal reaches 1.5 V and the point that the second signal reaches 1.5 V.

Figure 38. Equivalent Device Loading for AC Measurements (Includes All Fixtures)

<!-- image -->

Figure 39. Voltage Reference Levels for AC Measurements

<!-- image -->

## CAPACITIVE LOADING

Output delays and holds are based on standard capacitive loads: 30 pF on all pins (see Figure 38). Figure 42 shows graphically how output delays and holds vary with load capacitance. The graphs of Figure 40, Figure 41, and Figure 42 may not be linear outside the ranges shown for Typical Output Delay versus Load Capacitance and Typical Output Rise Time (20% to 80%, V = Min) versus Load Capacitance.

Figure 40. Typical Output Rise/Fall Time (20% to 80%, VDDEXT = Max)

<!-- image -->

Figure 41. Typical Output Rise/Fall Time (20% to 80%, VDDEXT = Min)

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

Figure 42. Typical Output Delay or Hold versus Load Capacitance (at Ambient Temperature)

<!-- image -->

## THERMAL CHARACTERISTICS

The processor is rated for performance over the temperature range specified in Operating Conditions on Page 14.

Table 42 through Table 44 airflow measurements comply with JEDEC standards JESD51-2 and JESD51-6 and the junction-toboard measurement complies with JESD51-8. Test board and thermal via design comply with JEDEC standards JESD51-9 (BGA) and JESD51-5 (LQFP\_EP). The junction-to-case measurement complies with MIL-STD-883. All measurements use a 2S2P JEDEC test board.

Industrial applications using the BGA package require thermal vias, to an embedded ground plane, in the PCB. Refer to JEDEC standard JESD51-9 for printed circuit board thermal ball land and thermal via design information.

Industrial applications using the LQFP\_EP package require thermal trace squares and thermal vias, to an embedded ground plane, in the PCB. Refer to JEDEC standard JESD51-5 for more information.

To determine the junction temperature of the device while on the application PCB, use:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where:

TJ = junction temperature ( ° C)

TT = case temperature ( ° C) measured at the top center of the package

Ψ JT = junction-to-top (of package) characterization parameter is the typical value from Table 42 through Table 44.

PD = power dissipation. See the Engineer-to-Engineer Note ' Estimating Power for the ADSP-21362 SHARC Processors ' (EE-277) for more information.

Values of θJA are provided for package comparison and PCB design considerations.

Values of θJC are provided for package comparison and PCB design considerations when an exposed pad is required. Note that the thermal characteristics values provided in Table 42 through Table 44 are modeled values.

Table 42. Thermal Characteristics for BGA (No Thermal vias in PCB)

| Parameter   | Condition       |   Typical | Unit   |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------|--------|
| θ JA        | Airflow = 0 m/s |     25.4  | °C/W   |
| θ JMA       | Airflow = 1 m/s |     21.9  | °C/W   |
| θ JMA       | Airflow = 2 m/s |     20.9  | °C/W   |
| θ JC        |                 |      5.07 | °C/W   |
| Ψ JT        | Airflow = 0 m/s |      0.14 | °C/W   |
| Ψ JMT       | Airflow = 1 m/s |      0.33 | °C/W   |
| Ψ JMT       | Airflow = 2 m/s |      0.41 | °C/W   |

Table 43. Thermal Characteristics for BGA (Thermal vias in PCB)

| Parameter   | Condition       |   Typical | Unit   |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------|--------|
| θ JA        | Airflow = 0 m/s |     23.4  | °C/W   |
| θ JMA       | Airflow = 1 m/s |     20    | °C/W   |
| θ JMA       | Airflow = 2 m/s |     19.2  | °C/W   |
| θ JC        |                 |      5    | °C/W   |
| Ψ JT        | Airflow = 0 m/s |      0.13 | °C/W   |
| Ψ JMT       | Airflow = 1 m/s |      0.3  | °C/W   |
| Ψ JMT       | Airflow = 2 m/s |      0.36 | °C/W   |

Table 44. Thermal Characteristics for LQFP\_EP (with Exposed Pad Soldered to PCB)

| Parameter   | Condition       |   Typical | Unit   |
|-------------|-----------------|-----------|--------|
| θ JA        | Airflow = 0 m/s |     16.8  | °C/W   |
| θ JMA       | Airflow = 1 m/s |     14.2  | °C/W   |
| θ JMA       | Airflow = 2 m/s |     13.5  | °C/W   |
| θ JC        |                 |      7.25 | °C/W   |
| Ψ JT        | Airflow = 0 m/s |      0.51 | °C/W   |
| Ψ JMT       | Airflow = 1 m/s |      0.72 | °C/W   |
| Ψ JMT       | Airflow = 2 m/s |      0.8  | °C/W   |

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## 144-LEAD LQFP\_EP PIN CONFIGURATIONS

The following table shows the processor's pin names and, when applicable, their default function after reset in parentheses.

Table 45. LQFP\_EP Pin Assignments

| PinName   | Pin No.   | PinName        | Pin No.   | PinName         | Pin No.   | PinName   | Pin No.   |
|-----------|-----------|----------------|-----------|-----------------|-----------|-----------|-----------|
| V DDINT   | 1         | V DDINT        | 37        | V DDEXT         | 73        | GND       | 109       |
| CLK_CFG0  | 2         | GND            | 38        | GND             | 74        | V DDINT   | 110       |
| CLK_CFG1  | 3         | RD             | 39        | V DDINT         | 75        | GND       | 111       |
| BOOT_CFG0 | 4         | ALE            | 40        | GND             | 76        | V DDINT   | 112       |
| BOOT_CFG1 | 5         | AD15           | 41        | DAI_P10 (SD2B)  | 77        | GND       | 113       |
| GND       | 6         | AD14           | 42        | DAI_P11 (SD3A)  | 78        | V DDINT   | 114       |
| V DDEXT   | 7         | AD13           | 43        | DAI_P12 (SD3B)  | 79        | GND       | 115       |
| GND       | 8         | GND            | 44        | DAI_P13 (SCLK3) | 80        | V DDEXT   | 116       |
| V DDINT   | 9         | V DDEXT        | 45        | DAI_P14 (SFS3)  | 81        | GND       | 117       |
| GND       | 10        | AD12           | 46        | DAI_P15 (SD4A)  | 82        | V DDINT   | 118       |
| V DDINT   | 11        | V DDINT        | 47        | V DDINT         | 83        | GND       | 119       |
| GND       | 12        | GND            | 48        | GND             | 84        | V DDINT   | 120       |
| V DDINT   | 13        | AD11           | 49        | GND             | 85        | RESET     | 121       |
| GND       | 14        | AD10           | 50        | DAI_P16 (SD4B)  | 86        | SPIDS     | 122       |
| FLAG0     | 15        | AD9            | 51        | DAI_P17 (SD5A)  | 87        | GND       | 123       |
| FLAG1     | 16        | AD8            | 52        | DAI_P18 (SD5B)  | 88        | V DDINT   | 124       |
| AD7       | 17        | DAI_P1 (SD0A)  | 53        | DAI_P19 (SCLK5) | 89        | SPICLK    | 125       |
| GND       | 18        | V DDINT        | 54        | V DDINT         | 90        | MISO      | 126       |
| V DDINT   | 19        | GND            | 55        | GND             | 91        | MOSI      | 127       |
| GND       | 20        | DAI_P2 (SD0B)  | 56        | GND             | 92        | GND       | 128       |
| V DDEXT   | 21        | DAI_P3 (SCLK0) | 57        | V DDEXT         | 93        | V DDINT   | 129       |
| GND       | 22        | GND            | 58        | DAI_P20 (SFS5)  | 94        | V DDEXT   | 130       |
| V DDINT   | 23        | V DDEXT        | 59        | GND             | 95        | A vdd     | 131       |
| AD6       | 24        | V DDINT        | 60        | V DDINT         | 96        | A vss     | 132       |
| AD5       | 25        | GND            | 61        | FLAG2           | 97        | GND       | 133       |
| AD4       | 26        | DAI_P4 (SFS0)  | 62        | FLAG3           | 98        | RESETOUT  | 134       |
| V DDINT   | 27        | DAI_P5 (SD1A)  | 63        | V DDINT         | 99        | EMU       | 135       |
| GND       | 28        | DAI_P6 (SD1B)  | 64        | GND             | 100       | TDO       | 136       |
| AD3       | 29        | DAI_P7 (SCLK1) | 65        | V DDINT         | 101       | TDI       | 137       |
| AD2       | 30        | V DDINT        | 66        | GND             | 102       | TRST      | 138       |
| V DDEXT   | 31        | GND            | 67        | V DDINT         | 103       | TCK       | 139       |
| GND       | 32        | V DDINT        | 68        | GND             | 104       | TMS       | 140       |
| AD1       | 33        | GND            | 69        | V DDINT         | 105       | GND       | 141       |
| AD0       | 34        | DAI_P8 (SFS1)  | 70        | GND             | 106       | CLKIN     | 142       |
| WR        | 35        | DAI_P9 (SD2A)  | 71        | V DDINT         | 107       | XTAL      | 143       |
| V DDINT   | 36        | V DDINT        | 72        | V DDINT         | 108       | V DDEXT   | 144       |
|           |           |                |           |                 |           | GND       | 145*      |

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

Figure 43 shows the top view of the 144-lead LQFP\_EP pin configuration. Figure 44 shows the bottom view of the 144-lead LQFP\_EP lead configuration.

Figure 43. 144-Lead LQFP\_EP Lead Configuration (Top View)

<!-- image -->

Figure 44. 144-Lead LQFP\_EP Lead Configuration (Bottom View)

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## 136-BALL BGA PIN CONFIGURATIONS

The following table shows the processor's ball names and, when applicable, their default function after reset in parentheses.

## Table 46. BGA Pin Assignments

| BallName   | Ball No.   | BallName       | Ball No.   | BallName        | Ball No.   | BallName       | Ball No.   |
|------------|------------|----------------|------------|-----------------|------------|----------------|------------|
| CLK_CFG0   | A01        | CLK_CFG1       | B01        | BOOT_CFG1       | C01        | V DDINT        | D01        |
| XTAL       | A02        | GND            | B02        | BOOT_CFG0       | C02        | GND            | D02        |
| TMS        | A03        | V DDEXT        | B03        | GND             | C03        | GND            | D04        |
| TCK        | A04        | CLKIN          | B04        | GND             | C12        | GND            | D05        |
| TDI        | A05        | TRST           | B05        | GND             | C13        | GND            | D06        |
| RESETOUT   | A06        | A VSS          | B06        | V DDINT         | C14        | GND            | D09        |
| TDO        | A07        | A VDD          | B07        |                 |            | GND            | D10        |
| EMU        | A08        | V DDEXT        | B08        |                 |            | GND            | D11        |
| MOSI       | A09        | SPICLK         | B09        |                 |            | GND            | D13        |
| MISO       | A10        | RESET          | B10        |                 |            | V DDINT        | D14        |
| SPIDS      | A11        | V DDINT        | B11        |                 |            |                |            |
| V DDINT    | A12        | GND            | B12        |                 |            |                |            |
| GND        | A13        | GND            | B13        |                 |            |                |            |
| GND        | A14        | GND            | B14        |                 |            |                |            |
| V DDINT    | E01        | FLAG1          | F01        | AD7             | G01        | AD6            | H01        |
| GND        | E02        | FLAG0          | F02        | V DDINT         | G02        | V DDEXT        | H02        |
| GND        | E04        | GND            | F04        | V DDEXT         | G13        | DAI_P18 (SD5B) | H13        |
| GND        | E05        | GND            | F05        | DAI_P19 (SCLK5) | G14        | DAI_P17 (SD5A) | H14        |
| GND        | E06        | GND            | F06        |                 |            |                |            |
| GND        | E09        | GND            | F09        |                 |            |                |            |
| GND        | E10        | GND            | F10        |                 |            |                |            |
| GND        | E11        | GND            | F11        |                 |            |                |            |
| GND        | E13        | FLAG2          | F13        |                 |            |                |            |
| FLAG3      | E14        | DAI_P20 (SFS5) | F14        |                 |            |                |            |

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

Table 46. BGA Pin Assignments (Continued)

| BallName       | Ball No.   | BallName       | Ball No.   | BallName       | Ball No.   | BallName        | Ball No.   |
|----------------|------------|----------------|------------|----------------|------------|-----------------|------------|
| AD5            | J01        | AD3            | K01        | AD2            | L01        | AD0             | M01        |
| AD4            | J02        | V DDINT        | K02        | AD1            | L02        | WR              | M02        |
| GND            | J04        | GND            | K04        | GND            | L04        | GND             | M03        |
| GND            | J05        | GND            | K05        | GND            | L05        | GND             | M12        |
| GND            | J06        | GND            | K06        | GND            | L06        | DAI_P12 (SD3B)  | M13        |
| GND            | J09        | GND            | K09        | GND            | L09        | DAI_P13 (SCLK3) | M14        |
| GND            | J10        | GND            | K10        | GND            | L10        |                 |            |
| GND            | J11        | GND            | K11        | GND            | L11        |                 |            |
| V DDINT        | J13        | GND            | K13        | GND            | L13        |                 |            |
| DAI_P16 (SD4B) | J14        | DAI_P15 (SD4A) | K14        | DAI_P14 (SFS3) | L14        |                 |            |
| AD15           | N01        | AD14           | P01        |                |            |                 |            |
| ALE            | N02        | AD13           | P02        |                |            |                 |            |
| RD             | N03        | AD12           | P03        |                |            |                 |            |
| V DDINT        | N04        | AD11           | P04        |                |            |                 |            |
| V DDEXT        | N05        | AD10           | P05        |                |            |                 |            |
| AD8            | N06        | AD9            | P06        |                |            |                 |            |
| V DDINT        | N07        | DAI_P1 (SD0A)  | P07        |                |            |                 |            |
| DAI_P2 (SD0B)  | N08        | DAI_P3 (SCLK0) | P08        |                |            |                 |            |
| V DDEXT        | N09        | DAI_P5 (SD1A)  | P09        |                |            |                 |            |
| DAI_P4 (SFS0)  | N10        | DAI_P6 (SD1B)  | P10        |                |            |                 |            |
| V DDINT        | N11        | DAI_P7 (SCLK1) | P11        |                |            |                 |            |
| V DDINT        | N12        | DAI_P8 (SFS1)  | P12        |                |            |                 |            |
| GND            | N13        | DAI_P9 (SD2A)  | P13        |                |            |                 |            |
| DAI_P10 (SD2B) | N14        | DAI_P11 (SD3A) | P14        |                |            |                 |            |

Figure 45 and Figure 46 show BGA pin assignments from the bottom and top, respectively.

Note : Use the center block of ground pins to provide thermal pathways to your printed circuit board's ground plane.

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

Figure 45. BGA Pin Assignments (Bottom View, Summary)

<!-- image -->

Figure 46. BGA Pin Assignments (Top View, Summary)

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## PACKAGE DIMENSIONS

The processor is available in 136-ball BGA and 144-lead exposed pad (LQFP\_EP) packages.

<!-- image -->

COMPLIANT TO JEDEC STANDARDS MS-026-BFB-HD * EXPOSED PAD IS COINCIDENT WITH BOTTOM SURFACE AND DOES NOT PROTRUDE BEYOND IT. EXPOSED PAD IS CENTERED.

Figure 47. 144-Lead Low Profile Quad Flat Package, Exposed Pad [LQFP\_EP 1 ] (SW-144-1)

Dimensions shown in millimeters

1 For information relating to the exposed pad on the SW-144-1 package, see the table endnote on Page 48.

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

<!-- image -->

* COMPLIANT WITH JEDEC STANDARDS MO-275-GGAA-1 WITH EXCEPTION TO BALL DIAMETER.

Figure 48. 136-Ball Chip Scale Package Ball Grid Array [CSP\_BGA] (BC-136-1) Dimensions shown in millimeters

## SURFACE-MOUNT DESIGN

Table 47 is provided as an aid to PCB design. For industry standard design recommendations, refer to IPC-7351, Generic Requirements for Surface-Mount Design and Land Pattern Standard .

Table 47. BGA Data for Use with Surface-Mount Design

| Package                     | Package Ball Attach Type   | Package Solder Mask Opening   | Package Ball Pad Size   |
|-----------------------------|----------------------------|-------------------------------|-------------------------|
| 136-Ball CSP_BGA (BC-136-1) | Solder Mask Defined        | 0.40 mmdiameter               | 0.53 mmdiameter         |

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTS

Some ADSP-2136x models are available for automotive applications with controlled manufacturing. Note that these special models may have specifications that differ from the general release models.

Table 48. Automotive Products

| Model            | Notes   | Temperature Range 1   | Instruction Rate   | On-Chip SRAM   | ROM   | Package Description   | Package Option   |
|------------------|---------|-----------------------|--------------------|----------------|-------|-----------------------|------------------|
| AD21362WBBCZ1xx  | 2       | -40°C to +85°C        | 333 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 136-Ball CSP_BGA      | BC-136-1         |
| AD21362WBSWZ1xx  | 2       | -40°C to +85°C        | 333 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 144-Lead LQFP_EP      | SW-144-1         |
| AD21362WYSWZ2xx  | 2       | -40°C to +105°C       | 200 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 144-Lead LQFP_EP      | SW-144-1         |
| AD21363WBBCZ1xx  |         | -40°C to +85°C        | 333 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 136-Ball CSP_BGA      | BC-136-1         |
| AD21363WBSWZ1xx  |         | -40°C to +85°C        | 333 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 144-Lead LQFP_EP      | SW-144-1         |
| AD21363WYSWZ2xx  |         | -40°C to +105°C       | 200 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 144-Lead LQFP_EP      | SW-144-1         |
| AD21364WBBCZ1xx  |         | -40°C to +85°C        | 333 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 136-Ball CSP_BGA      | BC-136-1         |
| AD21364WBSWZ1xx  |         | -40°C to +85°C        | 333 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 144-Lead LQFP_EP      | SW-144-1         |
| AD21364WYSWZ2xx  |         | -40°C to +105°C       | 200 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 144-Lead LQFP_EP      | SW-144-1         |
| AD21365WBSWZ1xxA | 2, 3, 4 | -40°C to +85°C        | 333 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 144-Lead LQFP_EP      | SW-144-1         |
| AD21365WBSWZ1xxF | 2, 3, 4 | -40°C to +85°C        | 333 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 144-Lead LQFP_EP      | SW-144-1         |
| AD21365WYSWZ2xxA | 2, 3, 4 | -40°C to +105°C       | 200 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 144-Lead LQFP_EP      | SW-144-1         |
| AD21366WBBCZ1xxA | 3, 4    | -40°C to +85°C        | 333 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 136-Ball CSP_BGA      | BC-136-1         |
| AD21366WBSWZ1xxA | 3, 4    | -40°C to +85°C        | 333 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 144-Lead LQFP_EP      | SW-144-1         |
| AD21366WYSWZ2xxA | 3, 4    | -40°C to +105°C       | 200 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 144-Lead LQFP_EP      | SW-144-1         |

The automotive grade products shown in Table 48 are available for use in automotive applications. Contact your local ADI account representative or authorized ADI product distributor for specific product ordering information. Note that all automotive products are RoHS compliant.

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## ORDERING GUIDE

| Model 1            | Notes   | Temperature Range 2   | Instruction Rate   | On-Chip SRAM   | ROM   | Package Description   | Package Option   |
|--------------------|---------|-----------------------|--------------------|----------------|-------|-----------------------|------------------|
| ADSP-21363KBC-1AA  |         | 0°C to +70°C          | 333 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 136-Ball CSP_BGA      | BC-136-1         |
| ADSP-21363KBCZ-1AA |         | 0°C to +70°C          | 333 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 136-Ball CSP_BGA      | BC-136-1         |
| ADSP-21363KSWZ-1AA |         | 0°C to +70°C          | 333 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 144-Lead LQFP_EP      | SW-144-1         |
| ADSP-21363BBC-1AA  |         | -40°C to +85°C        | 333 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 136-Ball CSP_BGA      | BC-136-1         |
| ADSP-21363BBCZ-1AA |         | -40°C to +85°C        | 333 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 136-Ball CSP_BGA      | BC-136-1         |
| ADSP-21363BSWZ-1AA |         | -40°C to +85°C        | 333 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 144-Lead LQFP_EP      | SW-144-1         |
| ADSP-21363YSWZ-2AA | 3       | -40°C to +105°C       | 200 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 144-Lead LQFP_EP      | SW-144-1         |
| ADSP-21364KBCZ-1AA |         | 0°C to +70°C          | 333 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 136-Ball CSP_BGA      | BC-136-1         |
| ADSP-21364KSWZ-1AA |         | 0°C to +70°C          | 333 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 144-Lead LQFP_EP      | SW-144-1         |
| ADSP-21364BBCZ-1AA |         | -40°C to +85°C        | 333 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 136-Ball CSP_BGA      | BC-136-1         |
| ADSP-21364BSWZ-1AA |         | -40°C to +85°C        | 333 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 144-Lead LQFP_EP      | SW-144-1         |
| ADSP-21364YSWZ-2AA |         | -40°C to +105°C       | 200 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 144-Lead LQFP_EP      | SW-144-1         |
| ADSP-21366KBCZ-1AR | 3, 4, 5 | 0°C to +70°C          | 333 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 136-Ball CSP_BGA      | BC-136-1         |
| ADSP-21366KBCZ-1AA | 3, 4    | 0°C to +70°C          | 333 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 136-Ball CSP_BGA      | BC-136-1         |
| ADSP-21366KSWZ-1AA | 3, 4    | 0°C to +70°C          | 333 MHz            | 3MBit          | 4MBit | 144-Lead LQFP_EP      | SW-144-1         |

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

## ADSP-21362/ADSP-21363/ADSP-21364/ADSP-21365/ADSP-21366

<!-- image -->