<!-- lastmod 2025-09-05 -->
<!-- image -->

## SUMMARY

- High performance signal processor for communications, graphics, and imaging applications
- Super Harvard Architecture
- Four independent buses for dual data fetch, instruction fetch, and nonintrusive I/O
- 32-bit IEEE floating-point computation units-multiplier, ALU, and shifter
- Dual-ported on-chip SRAM and integrated I/O peripherals-a complete system-on-a-chip

Integrated multiprocessing features

## KEY FEATURES-PROCESSOR CORE

50 MIPS, 20 ns instruction rate, single-cycle instruction execution

120 MFLOPS peak, 80 MFLOPS sustained performance

Figure 1. Functional Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

SHARC and the SHARC logo are registered trademarks of Analog Devices, Inc.

## Document Feedback

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable. However,  no  responsibility  is  assumed  by  Analog  Devices  for  its  use,  nor  for  any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

## Commercial Grade

## SHARC DSP Microcomputer

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

- Dual data address generators with modulo and bit-reverse addressing
- Efficient program sequencing with zero-overhead looping: single-cycle loop setup
- IEEE JTAG Standard 1149.1 test access port and on-chip emulation
- 32-bit single-precision and 40-bit extended-precision IEEE floating-point data formats or 32-bit fixed-point data format
- 240-lead MQFP package, thermally enhanced MQFP, 225-ball plastic ball grid array (PBGA)
- Lead (Pb) free packages. For more information, see Ordering Guide on Page 52.

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

## TABLE OF CONTENTS

| Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    | . . 1                                    |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|
| Key Features-Processor Core . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                            | . . 1                                    |
| General Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                    | . . 3                                    |
| SHARC Family Core Architecture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                   | . . 3                                    |
| Memory and I/O Interface Features . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                  | . . 4                                    |
| Porting Code From the ADSP-21060 or ADSP-21062 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . | . . 7                                    |
| Development Tools . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                          | . . 7                                    |
| Additional Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                               | . . 8                                    |
| Related Signal Chains . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                            | . . 8                                    |
| Pin Function Descriptions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                              | . . 9                                    |
| Target Board Connector For EZ-ICE Probe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                | 12                                       |
| ADSP-21061 Specifications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                | 14                                       |
| Operating Conditions (5 V) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                     | 14                                       |
| Electrical Characteristics (5 V) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                       | 14                                       |
| Internal Power Dissipation (5 V) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                             | 15                                       |
| External Power Dissipation (5 V) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                             | 16                                       |
| REVISION HISTORY                                                                                                                                     |                                          |
| 5/13-Rev Cto RevD                                                                                                                                    |                                          |
| Updated Development Tools                                                                                                                            | .......................................7 |
| Added Related Signal Chains                                                                                                                          | .......................................8 |
| Removed the ADSP-21061LAS-176, ADSP-21061LKS-160, ADSP-21061LKS-176 models from Ordering Guide . . . . . . . .                                       | and 52                                   |

## GENERAL NOTE

This data sheet represents production released specifications for the ADSP-21061 (5 V) and ADSP-21061L (3.3 V) processors for 33 MHz, 40 MHz, 44 MHz, and 50 MHz speed grades. The product name'ADSP-21061' is used throughout this data sheet to represent all devices, except where expressly noted.

| ADSP-21061L Specifications . . . . . . . . . .                     |   17 |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------|------|
| Operating Conditions (3.3 V) . . . . . .                           |   17 |
| Electrical Characteristics (3.3 V) . .                             |   17 |
| Internal Power Dissipation (3.3 V)                                 |   18 |
| External Power Dissipation (3.3 V)                                 |   19 |
| Absolute Maximum Ratings . . . . . . . .                           |   20 |
| ESD Caution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  |   20 |
| Package Marking Information . . . . .                              |   20 |
| Timing Specifications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              |   20 |
| Test Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      |   43 |
| Environmental Conditions . . . . . . . . .                         |   46 |
| 225-Ball PBGA Pin Configurations . .                               |   47 |
| 240-Lead MQFP Pin Configurations                                   |   49 |
| Outline Dimensions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       |   50 |
| Surface-Mount Design . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 |   52 |
| Ordering Guide . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |   52 |

## GENERAL DESCRIPTION

The ADSP-21061 SHARC-Super Harvard Architecture Computer-is a signal processing microcomputer that offers new capabilities and levels of performance. The ADSP-21061 SHARC is a 32-bit processor optimized for high performance DSP applications. The ADSP-21061 builds on the ADSP-21000 DSP core to form a complete system-on-a-chip, adding a dualported on-chip SRAM and integrated I/O peripherals supported by a dedicated I/O bus.

Fabricated in a high speed, low power CMOS process, the ADSP-21061 has a 20 ns instruction cycle time and operates at 50 MIPS. With its on-chip instruction cache, the processor can execute every instruction in a single cycle. Table 1 shows performance benchmarks for the ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L.

The ADSP-21061 SHARC represents a new standard of integration for signal computers, combining a high performance floating-point DSP core with integrated, on-chip system features including 1M bit SRAM memory, a host processor interface, a DMA controller, serial ports, and parallel bus connectivity for glueless DSP multiprocessing.

## Table 1. Benchmarks (at 50 MHz)

| Benchmark Algorithm                             | Speed    | Cycles   |
|-------------------------------------------------|----------|----------|
| 1024 Point Complex FFT (Radix 4, with reversal) | .37 ms   | 18,221   |
| FIR Filter (per tap)                            | 20 ns    | 1        |
| IIR Filter (per biquad)                         | 80 ns    | 4        |
| Divide (y/x)                                    | 120 ns   | 6        |
| Inverse Square Root                             | 180 ns   | 9        |
| DMATransfer Rate                                | 300M bps |          |

The ADSP-21061 continues SHARC's industry-leading standards of integration for DSPs, combining a high performance 32-bit DSP core with integrated, on-chip system features.

The block diagram on Page 1, illustrates the following architectural features:

- Computation units (ALU, multiplier, and shifter) with a shared data register file
- Data address generators (DAG1, DAG2)
- Program sequencer with instruction cache
- PM and DM buses capable of supporting four 32-bit data transfers between memory and the core at every core processor cycle
- Interval timer
- On-chip SRAM
- External port for interfacing to off-chip memory and peripherals
- Host port and multiprocessor interface
- DMA controller

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

- Serial ports
- JTAG test access port

Figure 2. ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L System Sample Configuration

<!-- image -->

## SHARC FAMILY CORE ARCHITECTURE

The ADSP-21061 includes the following architectural features of the ADSP-21000 family core. The ADSP-21061 processors are code- and function-compatible with the ADSP-21020, ADSP-21060, and ADSP-21062 SHARC processors.

## Independent, Parallel Computation Units

The arithmetic/logic unit (ALU), multiplier, and shifter all perform single-cycle instructions. The three units are arranged in parallel, maximizing computational throughput. Single multifunction instructions execute parallel ALU and multiplier operations. These computation units support IEEE 32-bit singleprecision floating-point, extended-precision 40-bit floatingpoint, and 32-bit fixed-point data formats.

## Data Register File

A general-purpose data register file is used for transferring data between the computation units and the data buses, and for storing intermediate results. This 10-port, 32-register (16 primary, 16 secondary) register file, combined with the ADSP-21000 Harvard architecture, allows unconstrained data flow between computation units and internal memory.

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

## Single-Cycle Fetch of Instruction and Two Operands

The ADSP-21061 features an enhanced Harvard architecture in which the data memory (DM) bus transfers data and the program memory (PM) bus transfers both instructions and data (Figure 1 on Page 1). With its separate program and data memory buses and on-chip instruction cache, the processor can simultaneously fetch two operands and an instruction (from the cache), all in a single cycle.

## Instruction Cache

The ADSP-21061 includes an on-chip instruction cache that enables three-bus operation for fetching an instruction and two data values. The cache is selective-only the instructions whose fetches conflict with PM bus data accesses are cached. This allows full-speed execution of core, looped operations such as digital filter multiply-accumulates and FFT butterfly processing.

## Data Address Generators with Hardware Circular Buffers

The ADSP-21061's two data address generators (DAGs) implement circular data buffers in hardware. Circular buffers allow efficient programming of delay lines and other data structures required in digital signal processing, and are commonly used in digital filters and Fourier transforms. The two DAGs of the ADSP-21061 contain sufficient registers to allow the creation of up to 32 circular buffers (16 primary register sets, 16 secondary). The DAGs automatically handle address pointer wraparound, reducing overhead, increasing performance and simplifying implementation. Circular buffers can start and end at any memory location.

## Flexible Instruction Set

The 48-bit instruction word accommodates a variety of parallel operations, for concise programming. For example, the ADSP-21061 can conditionally execute a multiply, an add, a subtract, and a branch, all in a single instruction.

## MEMORY AND I/O INTERFACE FEATURES

The ADSP-21061 processors add the following architectural features to the SHARC family core.

## Dual-Ported On-Chip Memory

The ADSP-21061 contains one megabit of on-chip SRAM, organized as two blocks of 0.5M bits each. Each bank has eight 16-bit columns with 4k 16-bit words per column. Each memory block is dual-ported for single-cycle, independent accesses by the core processor and I/O processor or DMA controller. The dualported memory and separate on-chip buses allow two data transfers from the core and one from I/O, all in a single cycle (see Figure 4 for the ADSP-21061 memory map).

On the ADSP-21061, the memory can be configured as a maximum of 32k words of 32-bit data, 64k words for 16-bit data, 16k words of 48-bit instructions (and 40-bit data) or combinations of different word sizes up to 1 megabit. All the memory can be accessed as 16-bit, 32-bit, or 48-bit.

A 16-bit floating-point storage format is supported, which effectively doubles the amount of data that may be stored on-chip. Conversion between the 32-bit floating-point and 16-bit floating-point formats is done in a single instruction.

While each memory block can store combinations of code and data, accesses are most efficient when one block stores data, using the DM bus for transfers, and the other block stores instructions and data, using the PM bus for transfers. Using the DM bus and PM bus in this way, with one dedicated to each memory block, assures single-cycle execution with two data transfers. In this case, the instruction must be available in the cache. Single-cycle execution is also maintained when one of the data operands is transferred to or from off-chip, via the ADSP-21061's external port.

## Off-Chip Memory and Peripherals Interface

The ADSP-21061's external port provides the processor's interface to off-chip memory and peripherals. The 4-gigaword offchip address space is included in the ADSP-21061's unified address space. The separate on-chip buses-for program memory, data memory, and I/O-are multiplexed at the external port to create an external system bus with a single 32-bit address bus and a single 48-bit (or 32-bit) data bus. The on-chip Super Harvard Architecture provides three-bus performance, while the off-chip unified address space gives flexibility to the designer.

Addressing of external memory devices is facilitated by on-chip decoding of high order address lines to generate memory bank select signals. Separate control lines are also generated for simplified addressing of page-mode DRAM. The ADSP-21061 provides programmable memory wait states and external memory acknowledge controls to allow interfacing to DRAM and peripherals with variable access, hold, and disable time requirements.

## Host Processor Interface

The ADSP-21061's host interface allows easy connection to standard microprocessor buses, both 16-bit and 32-bit, with little additional hardware required. Asynchronous transfers at speeds up to the full clock rate of the processor are supported. The host interface is accessed through the ADSP-21061's external port and is memory-mapped into the unified address space. Two channels of DMA are available for the host interface; code and data transfers are accomplished with low software overhead.

The host processor requests the ADSP-21061's external bus with the host bus request (HBR), host bus grant (HBG), and ready (REDY) signals. The host can directly read and write the internal memory of the ADSP-21061, and can access the DMA channel setup and mailbox registers. Vector interrupt support is provided for efficient execution of host commands.

## DMA Controller

The ADSP-21061's on-chip DMA controller allows zerooverhead data transfers without processor intervention. The DMA controller operates independently and invisibly to the processor core, allowing DMA operations to occur while the core is simultaneously executing its program instructions.

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

Figure 3. Shared Memory Multiprocessing System

<!-- image -->

DMA transfers can occur between the ADSP-21061's internal memory and either external memory, external peripherals, or a host processor. DMA transfers can also occur between the ADSP-21061's internal memory and its serial ports.

DMA transfers between external memory and external peripheral devices are another option. External bus packing to 16-, 32-, or 48-bit words is performed during DMA transfers.

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

Six channels of DMA are available on the ADSP-21061-four via the serial ports, and two via the processor's external port (for either host processor, other ADSP-21061s, memory or I/O transfers). Programs can be downloaded to the ADSP-21061 using DMA transfers. Asynchronous off-chip peripherals can control two DMA channels using DMA request/grant lines (DMAR1-2, DMAG1-2). Other DMA features include interrupt generation upon completion of DMA transfers and DMA chaining for automatic linked DMA transfers.

## Serial Ports

The ADSP-21061 features two synchronous serial ports that provide an inexpensive interface to a wide variety of digital and mixed-signal peripheral devices. The serial ports can operate at the full clock rate of the processor, providing each with a maximum data rate of up to 50 Mbps. Independent transmit and receive functions provide greater flexibility for serial communications. Serial port data can be automatically transferred to and from on-chip memory via DMA. Each of the serial ports offers TDM multichannel mode.

The serial ports can operate with little-endian or big-endian transmission formats, with word lengths selectable from 3 bits to 32 bits. They offer selectable synchronization and transmit modes as well as optional µ-law or A-law companding. Serial port clocks and frame syncs can be internally or externally generated. The serial ports also include keyword and key mask features to enhance interprocessor communication.

## Multiprocessing

The ADSP-21061 offers powerful features tailored to multiprocessor DSP systems. The unified address space (see Figure 4) allows direct interprocessor accesses of each ADSP-21061's internal memory. Distributed bus arbitration logic is included on-chip for simple, glueless connection of systems containing up to six ADSP-21061s and a host processor. Master processor changeover incurs only one cycle of overhead. Bus arbitration is selectable as either fixed or rotating priority. Bus lock allows indivisible read-modify-write sequences for semaphores. A vector interrupt is provided for interprocessor commands. Maximum throughput for interprocessor data transfer is 500 Mbps over the external port. Broadcast writes allow simultaneous transmission of data to all ADSP-21061s and can be used to implement reflective semaphores.

NOTE: BANK S IZE S ARE S ELECTED BY M S IZE BIT S OF THE S Y S CON REGI S TER

<!-- image -->

Figure 4. Memory Map

## Program Booting

The internal memory of the ADSP-21061 can be booted at system power-up from either an 8-bit EPROM, or a host processor. Selection of the boot source is controlled by the BMS (boot memory select), EBOOT (EPROM boot), and LBOOT (host boot) pins. 32-bit and 16-bit host processors can be used for booting.

## PORTING CODE FROM THE ADSP-21060 OR ADSP-21062

The ADSP-21061 is pin compatible with the ADSP-21060/ ADSP-21061/ADSP-21062 processors. The ADSP-21061 pins that correspond to the link port pins of the ADSP-21060/ ADSP-21062 are no-connects.

The ADSP-21061 is object code compatible with the ADSP-21060/ADSP-21062 processors except for the following functional elements:

- The ADSP-21061 memory is organized into two blocks with eight columns that are 4k deep per block. The ADSP-21060/ADSP-21062 memory has 16 columns per block.
- Link port functions are not available.
- Handshake external port DMA pins DMAR2 and DMAG2 are assigned to external port DMA Channel 6 instead of Channel 8.
- 2-D DMA capability of the SPORT is not available.
- The modify registers in SPORT DMA are not programmable.

On the ADSP-21061, Block 0 starts at the beginning of internal memory, normal word address 0x0002 0000. Block 1 starts at the end of Block 0, with contiguous addresses. The remaining addresses in internal memory are divided into blocks that alias into Block 1. This allows any code or data stored in Block 1 on the ADSP-21062 to retain the same addresses on the ADSP- 21061-these addresses will alias into the actual Block 1 of each processor.

If you develop your application using the ADSP-21062, but will migrate to the ADSP-21061, use only the first eight columns of each memory bank. Limit your application to 8k of instructions or up to 16k of data in each bank of the ADSP-21062, or any combination of instructions or data that does not exceed the memory bank.

## DEVELOPMENT TOOLS

Analog Devices supports its processors with a complete line of software and hardware development tools, including integrated development environments (which include CrossCore ® Embedded Studio and/or VisualDSP++ ® ), evaluation products, emulators, and a wide variety of software add-ins.

## Integrated Development Environments (IDEs)

For C/C++ software writing and editing, code generation, and debug support, Analog Devices offers two IDEs.

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

The newest IDE, CrossCore Embedded Studio, is based on the Eclipse TM framework. Supporting most Analog Devices processor families, it is the IDE of choice for future processors, including multicore devices. CrossCore Embedded Studio seamlessly integrates available software add-ins to support real time operating systems, file systems, TCP/IP stacks, USB stacks, algorithmic software modules, and evaluation hardware board support packages. For more information visit www.analog.com/cces.

The other Analog Devices IDE, VisualDSP++, supports processor families introduced prior to the release of CrossCore Embedded Studio. This IDE includes the Analog Devices VDK real time operating system and an open source TCP/IP stack. For more information visit www.analog.com/visualdsp. Note that VisualDSP++ will not support future Analog Devices processors.

## EZ-KIT Lite Evaluation Board

For processor evaluation, Analog Devices provides wide range of EZ-KIT Lite ® evaluation boards. Including the processor and key peripherals, the evaluation board also supports on-chip emulation capabilities and other evaluation and development features. Also available are various EZ-Extenders ® , which are daughter cards delivering additional specialized functionality, including audio and video processing. For more information visit www.analog.com and search on 'ezkit' or 'ezextender'.

## EZ-KIT Lite Evaluation Kits

For a cost-effective way to learn more about developing with Analog Devices processors, Analog Devices offer a range of EZKIT Lite evaluation kits. Each evaluation kit includes an EZ-KIT Lite evaluation board, directions for downloading an evaluation version of the available IDE(s), a USB cable, and a power supply. The USB controller on the EZ-KIT Lite board connects to the USB port of the user's PC, enabling the chosen IDE evaluation suite to emulate the on-board processor in-circuit. This permits the customer to download, execute, and debug programs for the EZ-KIT Lite system. It also supports in-circuit programming of the on-board Flash device to store user-specific boot code, enabling standalone operation. With the full version of CrossCore Embedded Studio or VisualDSP++ installed (sold separately), engineers can develop software for supported EZKITs or any custom system utilizing supported Analog Devices processors.

## Software Add-Ins for CrossCore Embedded Studio

Analog Devices offers software add-ins which seamlessly integrate with CrossCore Embedded Studio to extend its capabilities and reduce development time. Add-ins include board support packages for evaluation hardware, various middleware packages, and algorithmic modules. Documentation, help, configuration dialogs, and coding examples present in these add-ins are viewable through the CrossCore Embedded Studio IDE once the add-in is installed.

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

## Board Support Packages for Evaluation Hardware

Software support for the EZ-KIT Lite evaluation boards and EZExtender daughter cards is provided by software add-ins called Board Support Packages (BSPs). The BSPs contain the required drivers, pertinent release notes, and select example code for the given evaluation hardware. A download link for a specific BSP is located on the web page for the associated EZ-KIT or EZExtender product. The link is found in the Product Download area of the product web page.

## Middleware Packages

Analog Devices separately offers middleware add-ins such as real time operating systems, file systems, USB stacks, and TCP/IP stacks. For more information see the following web pages:

- www.analog.com/ucos3
- www.analog.com/ucfs
- www.analog.com/ucusbd
- www.analog.com/lwip

## Algorithmic Modules

To speed development, Analog Devices offers add-ins that perform popular audio and video processing algorithms. These are available for use with both CrossCore Embedded Studio and VisualDSP++. For more information visit www.analog.com and search on 'Blackfin software modules' or 'SHARC software modules'.

## Designing an Emulator-Compatible DSP Board (Target)

For embedded system test and debug, Analog Devices provides a family of emulators. On each JTAG DSP, Analog Devices supplies an IEEE 1149.1 JTAG Test Access Port (TAP). In-circuit emulation is facilitated by use of this JTAG interface. The emulator accesses the processor's internal features via the processor's TAP, allowing the developer to load code, set breakpoints, and view variables, memory, and registers. The processor must be halted to send data and commands, but once an operation is completed by the emulator, the DSP system is set to run at full speed with no impact on system timing. The emulators require the target board to include a header that supports connection of the DSP's JTAG port to the emulator.

For details on target board design issues including mechanical layout, single processor connections, signal buffering, signal termination, and emulator pod logic, see the EE-68: Analog Devices JTAG Emulation Technical Reference on the Analog Devices website (www.analog.com)-use site search on 'EE-68.' This document is updated regularly to keep pace with improvements to emulator support.

## ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

This data sheet provides a general overview of the ADSP-21061 architecture and functionality. For detailed information on the ADSP-21000 Family core architecture and instruction set, refer to the ADSP- 2106x SHARC User's Manual .

## RELATED SIGNAL CHAINS

A signal chain is a series of signal conditioning electronic components that receive input (data acquired from sampling either real-time phenomena or from stored data) in tandem, with the output of one portion of the chain supplying input to the next. Signal chains are often used in signal processing applications to gather and process data or to apply system controls based on analysis of real-time phenomena. For more information about this term and related topics, see the 'signal chain' entry in the Glossary of EE Terms on the Analog Devices website.

Analog Devices eases signal processing system development by providing signal processing components that are designed to work together well. A tool for viewing relationships between specific applications and related components is available on the www.analog.com website.

The Circuits from the Lab TM  site (www.analog.com/signal chains) provides:

- Graphical circuit block diagram presentation of signal chains for a variety of circuit types and applications
- Drill down links for components in each chain to selection guides and application information
- Reference designs applying best practice design techniques

## PIN FUNCTION DESCRIPTIONS

ADSP-21061 pin definitions are listed below. All pins are identical on the ADSP-21061 and ADSP-21061L. Inputs identified as synchronous (S) must meet timing requirements with respect to CLKIN (or with respect to TCK for TMS, TDI). Inputs identified as asynchronous (A) can be asserted asynchronously to CLKIN (or to TCK for TRST).

Table 2. Pin Descriptions

| Pin       | Type      | Function                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|-----------|-----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ADDR 31-0 | I/O/T     | External Bus Address. The ADSP-21061 outputs addresses for external memory and peripherals on these pins. In a multiprocessor system the bus master outputs addresses for read/write of the internalmemoryor IOP registers of other ADSP-21061s. The ADSP-21061 inputs addresses when a host processor or multipro- cessing bus master is reading or writing its internal memory or IOP registers.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| DATA 47-0 | I/O/T     | External Bus Data. The ADSP-21061 inputs and outputs data and instructions on these pins. 32-bit single- precision floating-point data and 32-bit fixed-point data is transferred over Bits 47 to 16 of the bus. 40-bit extended-precision floating-point data is transferred over Bits 47 to 8 of the bus. 16-bit short word data is transferred over Bits 31 to 16 of the bus. In PROMbootmode,8-bitdataistransferred over Bits 23 to 16. Pull- up resistors on unused DATA pins are not necessary.                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| MS 3-0    | O/T       | MemorySelectLines. Theselines are asserted (low) as chip selects for the corresponding banksofexternal memory. Memory bank size must be defined in the ADSP-21061's system control register (SYSCON). The MS 3-0 lines are decoded memory address lines that change at the same time as the other address lines. Whennoexternalmemory access is occurring theMS 3-0 lines are inactive; they are active howeverwhena conditional memory access instruction is executed, whether or not the condition is true.MS 0 can be used withthePAGEsignaltoimplementabankofDRAMmemory(Bank0).InamultiprocessingsystemtheMS 3-0 lines are output by the bus master.                                                          |
| RD        | I/O/T     | MemoryReadStrobe. Thispinisasserted(low)whentheADSP-21061readsfromexternalmemorydevices or from the internal memory of other ADSP-21061s. External devices (including other ADSP-21061s) must assert RDto read from the ADSP-21061's internal memory. In a multiprocessing system RDis output by the bus master and is input by all other ADSP-21061s.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| WR        | I/O/T     | MemoryWriteStrobe. This pin is asserted (low) whentheADSP-21061writes to external memorydevices or to the internal memory of other ADSP-21061s. External devices must assert WRto write to the ADSP-21061's internalmemory. In a multiprocessingsystemWRisoutput by the bus masterand is input by all other ADSP-21061s.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| PAGE      | O/T       | DRAMPageBoundary. The ADSP-21061 asserts this pin to signal that an external DRAMpage boundary has been crossed. DRAMpage size must be defined in the ADSP-21061's memory control register (WAIT). DRAMcan only be implemented in external memory Bank 0; the PAGE signal can only be activated for Bank 0 accesses. In a multiprocessing system PAGE is output by the bus master.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| ADRCLK SW | O/T I/O/T | Clock Output Reference. In a multiprocessing system ADRCLK is output by the bus master. SynchronousWriteSelect. ThissignalisusedtointerfacetheADSP-21061tosynchronousmemorydevices (including other ADSP-21061s). The ADSP-21061 asserts SW(low) to provide an early indication of an impending write cycle, which can be aborted if WRis not later asserted (e.g., in a conditional write instruction). In a multiprocessing system, SWis output by the bus master and is input by all other ADSP-21061stodetermineifthemultiprocessormemoryaccessisareadorwrite.SWisassertedatthesame time as the address output. Ahostprocessor using synchronous writes mustassert this pin whenwriting to the ADSP-21061(s). |

A = Asynchronous, G = Ground, I = Input, O = Output, P = Power Supply, S = Synchronous, (A/D) = Active Drive, (O/D) = Open-Drain, T = Three-State (when SBTS is asserted, or when the ADSP-21061 is a bus slave)

Unused inputs should be tied or pulled to VDD or GND, except for ADDR31-0, DATA47-0, FLAG3-0, SW, and inputs that have internal pull-up or pull-down resistors (CPA, ACK, DTx, DRx, TCLKx, RCLKx, TMS, and TDI)-these pins can be left floating. These pins have a logic-level hold circuit that prevents the input from floating internally.

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

Table 2. Pin Descriptions (Continued)

| Pin      | Type      | Function                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|----------|-----------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ACK      | I/O/S     | MemoryAcknowledge. External devices can deassert ACK(low) to add wait states to an externalmemory access. ACK is used by I/O devices, memory controllers, or other peripherals to hold off completion of an external memory access. The ADSP-21061 deasserts ACK as an output to add wait states to a synchronous access of its internal memory. In a multiprocessing system, a slave ADSP-21061 deasserts the bus master's ACK input to add wait state(s) to an access of its internal memory. The bus master has a keeper latch on its ACK pin that maintains the input at the level to which it was last driven. |
| SBTS     | I/S       | Suspend Bus Three-State. External devices can assert SBTS (low) to place the external bus address, data, selects,and strobes in a high impedancestate for the following cycle. If theADSP-21061 attempts to access external memory while SBTS is asserted, the processor halts and the memory access is not complete until SBTSisdeasserted.SBTSshouldonlybeusedtorecoverfromhostprocessor/ADSP-21061deadlock,orused with a DRAMcontroller.                                                                                                                                                                         |
| IRQ 2-0  | I/A       | Interrupt Request Lines. May be either edge-triggered or level-sensitive.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| FLAG 3-0 | I/O/A     | Flag Pins. Each is configured via control bits as either an input or output. As an input, they can be tested as a condition. As an output, they can be used to signal external peripherals.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| TIMEXP   | O         | Timer Expired. Asserted for four cycles when the timer is enabled and TCOUNT decrements to zero.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| HBR      | I/A       | Host Bus Request. This pin must be asserted by a host processor to request control of the ADSP-21061's external bus. When HBR is asserted in a multiprocessing system, the ADSP-21061 that is bus master will relinquish the bus and assert HBG. To relinquish the bus, the ADSP-21061 places the address, data, select, and strobe lines in a high impedance state. HBR has priority over all ADSP-21061 bus requests BR 6-1 in a multiprocessing system.                                                                                                                                                          |
| HBG      | I/O       | Host Bus Grant. Acknowledges a bus request, indicating that the host processor may take control of the externalbus.HBGisasserted(heldlow)bytheADSP-21061untilHBRisreleased.Inamultiprocessingsystem, HBG is output by the ADSP-21061 bus master and is monitored by all others.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| CS       | I/A       | Chip Select. Asserted by host processor to select the ADSP-21061.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| REDY     | O(O/D)    | HostBusAcknowledge. TheADSP-21061deassertsREDY(low)toaddwaitstatestoanasynchronousaccess of its internal memoryorIOPregisters by a host. This pin is an open-drain output (O/D) by default; it can be programmed in the ADREDYbit of the SYSCON register to be active drive (A/D). REDY will only be output if the CS and HBR inputs are asserted.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| DMAR 2-1 | I/A       | DMARequest 1 (DMA Channel 7) and DMARequest2 (DMA Channel 6).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| DMAG 2-1 | O/T       | DMAGrant1 (DMA Channel 7) and DMAGrant2 (DMA Channel 6).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| BR 6-1   | I/O/S     | Multiprocessing Bus Requests. Used by multiprocessing ADSP-21061 processors to arbitrate for bus mastership. AnADSP-21061onlydrives its ownBRxline(corresponding to the value of its ID2-0 inputs)and monitors all others. In a multiprocessor system with less than six ADSP-21061s, the unused BRx pins should be pulled high; the processor's own BRx line must not be pulled high or low because it is an output.                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| ID2-0    | O(O/D)    | Multiprocessing ID. Determines which multiprocessing bus request (BR1- BR6) is used by ADSP-21061. ID =001corresponds to BR1, ID =010corresponds to BR2, etc., ID =000in single-processor systems. These lines are a system configuration selection which should be hardwired or changed at reset only.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| RPBA     | I/S       | Rotating Priority Bus Arbitration Select. When RPBA is high, rotating priority for multiprocessor bus arbitration is selected. When RPBA is low, fixed priority is selected. This signal is a system configuration selectionwhichmustbesettothesamevalueoneveryADSP-21061.Ifthe value of RPBAis changedduring system operation, it must be changed in the same CLKIN cycle on every ADSP-21061.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| CPA      | I/O (O/D) | CorePriorityAccess. AssertingitsCPApinallowsthecoreprocessorofanADSP-21061busslavetointerrupt background DMAtransfers and gain access to the external bus. CPA is an open-drain output that is connected to all ADSP-21061s in the system.TheCPApinhas aninternal 5 k  pull-up resistor. If core access priority is not required in a system, the CPA pin should be left unconnected.                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| DTx      | O         | Data Transmit (Serial Ports 0, 1). Each DT pin has a 50 k  internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| DRx      | I         | Data Receive (Serial Ports 0, 1). Each DR pin has a 50 k  internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| TCLKx    | I/O       | Transmit Clock (Serial Ports 0, 1). Each TCLK pin has a 50 k  internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| RCLKx    | I/O       | Receive Clock (Serial Ports 0, 1). Each RCLK pin has a 50 k  internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |

A = Asynchronous, G = Ground, I = Input, O = Output, P = Power Supply, S = Synchronous, (A/D) = Active Drive, (O/D) = Open-Drain, T = Three-State (when SBTS is asserted, or when the ADSP-21061 is a bus slave)

Table 2. Pin Descriptions (Continued)

| Pin       | Type     | Function                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|-----------|----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| TFSx      | I/O      | Transmit Frame Sync (Serial Ports 0, 1).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| RFSx      | I/O      | Receive Frame Sync (Serial Ports 0, 1).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| EBOOT     | I        | EPROMBootSelect. WhenEBOOTishigh,theADSP-21061isconfigured for booting from an8-bitEPROM. When EBOOT is low, the LBOOT and BMS inputs determine booting mode. See the table in theBMS pin description below. This signal is a system configuration selection that should be hardwired. |
| LBOOT BMS | I I/O/T* | Link Boot. Must be tied to GND. Boot MemorySelect. Output : Used as chip select for boot EPROM devices (when EBOOT = 1,                                                                                                                                                                |
| CLKIN     | I        | Clock In. External clock input to the ADSP-21061. The instruction cycle rate is equal to CLKIN. CLKIN may not be halted, changed, or operated below the minimum specified frequency.                                                                                                   |
| RESET     | I/A      | Processor Reset. Resets the ADSP-21061 to a known state and begins program execution at the program memory location specified by the hardware reset vector address. This input must be asserted (low) at power-up.                                                                     |
| TCK       | I        | Test Clock (JTAG). Provides an asynchronous clock for JTAG boundary scan.                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| TMS       | I/S      | Test ModeSelect (JTAG). Used to control the test state machine. TMShas a 20 k  internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                             |
| TDI       | I/S      | Test Data Input (JTAG). Provides serial data for the boundary scan logic. TDI has a 20 k  internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                  |
| TDO       | O        | Test Data Output (JTAG). Serial scan output of the boundary scan path.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| TRST      | I/A      | TestReset(JTAG). Resetstheteststatemachine.TRSTmustbeasserted(pulsedlow)afterpower-uporheld low for proper operation of the ADSP-21061. TRST has a 20 k  internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                   |
| EMU       | O        | Emulation Status. Must be connected to the ADSP-21061 EZ-ICE target board connector only. EMUhas a 50 k  internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                   |
| ICSA      | O        | Reserved. Leave unconnected.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|           | P        | Power Supply                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| VDD       |          | . (30 pins). See Operating Conditions (5 V) and Operating Conditions (3.3 V).                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| GND       | G        | Power Supply Return. (30 pins)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| NC        |          | DoNotConnect. Reserved pins which must be left open and unconnected.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

## TARGET BOARD CONNECTOR FOR EZ-ICE PROBE

The ADSP-2106x EZ-ICE Emulator uses the IEEE 1149.1 JTAG test access port of the ADSP-2106x to monitor and control the target board processor during emulation. The EZ-ICE probe requires the ADSP-2106x's CLKIN, TMS, TCK, TDI, TDO, and GND signals be made accessible on the target system via a 14-pin connector (a 2-row, 7-pin strip header) such as that shown in Figure 5. The EZ-ICE probe plugs directly onto this connector for chip-on-board emulation. You must add this connector to your target board design if you intend to use the ADSP-2106x EZ-ICE. The total trace length between the EZICE connector and the farthest device sharing the EZ-ICE JTAG pin should be limited to 15 inches maximum for guaranteed operation. This length restriction must include EZ-ICE JTAG signals that are routed to one or more ADSP-2106x devices, or a combination of ADSP-2106x devices and other JTAG devices on the chain.

Figure 5. Target Board Connector For ADSP-2106x EZ-ICE Emulator (Jumpers in Place)

<!-- image -->

The 14-pin, 2-row pin strip header is keyed at the Pin 3 location-Pin 3 must be removed from the header. The pins must be 0.025 inch square and at least 0.20 inches in length. Pin spacing should be 0.1  0.1 inches. Pin strip headers are available from vendors such as 3M, McKenzie, and Samtec. The BTMS, BTCK, BTRST, and BTDI signals are provided so that the test access port can also be used for board-level testing.

When the connector is not being used for emulation, place jumpers between the Bxxx pins and the xxx pins as shown in Figure 5. If you are not going to use the test access port for board testing, tie BTRST to GND and tie or pull up BTCK to VDD. The TRST pin must be asserted (pulsed low) after powerup (through BTRST on the connector) or held low for proper operation of the ADSP-2106x. None of the Bxxx pins (Pins 5, 7, 9, and 11) are connected on the EZ-ICE probe.

The JTAG signals are terminated on the EZ-ICE probe as shown in Table 3.

Table 3. Core Instruction Rate/CLKIN Ratio Selection

| Signal   | Termination                                                                                  |
|----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| TMS      | Driven Through 22  Resistor (16 mADriver)                                                  |
| TCK      | Driven at 10 MHz Through 22  Resistor (16mA Driver)                                        |
| TRST 1   | Active Low Driven Through 22  Resistor (16mA Driver) (Pulled Up by On-Chip 20 k  Resistor) |
| TDI      | Driven by 22  Resistor (16 mADriver)                                                       |
| TDO      | One TTL Load, Split Termination (160/220)                                                    |
| CLKIN    | One TTL Load, Split Termination (160/220)                                                    |
| EMU      | Active Low, 4.7 k  Pull-Up Resistor, OneTTL Load (Open-Drain Output from the DSP)           |

1 TRST is driven low until the EZ-ICE probe is turned on by the emulator at software startup. After software startup, is driven high.

Figure 6 shows JTAG scan path connections for systems that contain multiple ADSP-2106x processors.

Connecting CLKIN to Pin 4 of the EZ-ICE header is optional. The emulator only uses CLKIN when directed to perform operations such as starting, stopping, and single-stepping multiple ADSP-2106xs in a synchronous manner. If you do not need these operations to occur synchronously on the multiple processors, simply tie Pin 4 of the EZ-ICE header to ground.

If synchronous multiprocessor operations are needed and CLKIN is connected, clock skew between the multiple ADSP-21061 processors and the CLKIN pin on the EZ-ICE header must be minimal. If the skew is too large, synchronous operations may be off by one or more cycles between processors. For synchronous multiprocessor operation TCK, TMS, CLKIN, and EMU should be treated as critical signals in terms of skew, and should be laid out as short as possible on your board. If TCK, TMS, and CLKIN are driving a large number of ADSP-21061s (more than eight) in your system, then treat them as a 'clock tree' using multiple drivers to minimize skew. (See Figure 7 below and 'JTAG Clock Tree' and 'Clock Distribution' in the 'High Frequency Design Considerations' section of the ADSP-2106x SHARC User's Manual .)

If synchronous multiprocessor operations are not needed (i.e., CLKIN is not connected), just use appropriate parallel termination on TCK and TMS. TDI, TDO, EMU, and TRST are not critical signals in terms of skew.

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

Figure 6. JTAG Scan Path Connections for Multiple ADSP-2106x Systems

<!-- image -->

Figure 7. JTAG Clock Tree for Multiple ADSP-2106x Systems

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

## ADSP-21061 SPECIFICATIONS

## OPERATING CONDITIONS (5 V)

|           |                                     | KGrade   | KGrade   | KGrade     |      |
|-----------|-------------------------------------|----------|----------|------------|------|
| Parameter | Description                         | Min      | Nom      | Max        | Unit |
| V DD      | Supply Voltage                      | 4.75     | 5.0      | 5.25       | V    |
| T CASE    | Case Operating Temperature          | 0        |          | 85         |  C  |
| V IH 1 1  | High Level Input Voltage@V DD = Max | 2.0      |          | V DD + 0.5 | V    |
| V IH 2 2  | High Level Input Voltage@V DD = Max | 2.2      |          | V DD + 0.5 | V    |
| V IL 1, 2 | Low Level Input Voltage@V DD = Min  | -0.5     |          | +0.8       | V    |

## ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS (5 V)

| Parameter        | Description                 | Test Conditions                           | Min   | Max   | Unit   |
|------------------|-----------------------------|-------------------------------------------|-------|-------|--------|
| V OH 1, 2        | High Level Output Voltage   | @V DD = Min, I OH = -2.0mA                | 4.1   |       | V      |
| V OL 1, 2        | Low Level Output Voltage    | @V DD = Min, I OL = 4.0mA                 |       | 0.4   | V      |
| I IH 3, 4        | High Level Input Current    | @V DD = Max, V IN = V DD Max              |       | 10    | µA     |
| I IL 3           | Low Level Input Current     | @V DD = Max, V IN = 0 V                   |       | 10    | µA     |
| I ILP 4          | Low Level Input Current     | @V DD = Max, V IN = 0 V                   |       | 150   | µA     |
| I OZH 5, 6, 7, 8 | Three-State Leakage Current | @V DD = Max, V IN = V DD Max              |       | 10    | µA     |
| I OZL 5          | Three-State Leakage Current | @V DD = Max, V IN = 0 V                   |       | 10    | µA     |
| I OZHP           | Three-State Leakage Current | @V DD = Max, V IN = V DD Max              |       | 350   | µA     |
| I OZLC 7         | Three-State Leakage Current | @V DD = Max, V IN = 0 V                   |       | 1.5   | mA     |
| I OZLA 9         | Three-State Leakage Current | @V DD = Max, V IN = 1.5 V                 |       | 350   | µA     |
| I OZLAR 8        | Three-State Leakage Current | @V DD = Max, V IN = 0 V                   |       | 4.2   | mA     |
| I OZLS 6         | Three-State Leakage Current | @V DD = Max, V IN = 0 V                   |       | 150   | µA     |
| C IN 10, 11      | Input Capacitance           | f IN = 1 MHz, T CASE = 25°C, V IN = 2.5 V |       | 4.7   | pF     |

## INTERNAL POWER DISSIPATION (5 V)

These specifications apply to the internal power portion of V DD only. See the Power Dissipation section of this data sheet for calculation of external supply current and total supply current. For

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

a complete discussion of the code used to measure power dissipation, see the technical note 'SHARC Power Dissipation Measurements.'

Specifications are based on the operating scenarios:

| Operation          | Peak Activity (I DDINPEAK )   | High Activity (I DDINHIGH )   | LowActivity (I DDINLOW )   |
|--------------------|-------------------------------|-------------------------------|----------------------------|
| Instruction Type   | Multifunction                 | Multifunction                 | Single Function            |
| Instruction Fetch  | Cache                         | Internal Memory               | Internal Memory            |
| Core Memory Access | 2 per Cycle (DM and PM)       | 1 per Cycle (DM)              | None                       |
| InternalMemoryDMA  | 1 per Cycle                   | 1 per 2 Cycles                | 1 per 2 Cycles             |

To estimate power consumption for a specific application, use the following equation where % is the amount of time your program spends in that state:

%PEAK IDDINPEAK + %HIGH IDDINHIGH + %LOW IDDINLOW  + %IDLE IDDIDLE = power consumption

| Parameter                                                           | Test Conditions                                                            | Max         | Unit   |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|--------|
| I DDINPEAK Supply Current (Internal) 1                              | t CK = 30 ns, V DD = Max t CK = 25 ns, V DD = Max t CK = 20 ns, V DD = Max | 595 680 850 | mA mA  |
| I DDINHIGH Supply Current (Internal) 2                              | t CK = 30 ns, V DD = Max t CK = 25 ns, V DD = Max t CK = 20 ns, V DD = Max | 460 540 670 | mA mA  |
| I DDINLOW Supply Current (Internal) 3                               | t CK = 30 ns, V DD = Max t CK = 25 ns, V DD = Max t CK = 20 ns, V DD = Max | 270 320 390 | mA mA  |
| I DDIDLE Supply Current (Idle) 4 I DDIDLE Supply Current (Idle16) 5 | V DD = Max V DD = Max                                                      | 200 55      | mA mA  |

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

## EXTERNAL POWER DISSIPATION (5 V)

Total power dissipation has two components, one due to internal circuitry and one due to the switching of external output drivers. Internal power dissipation is dependent on the instruction execution sequence and the data operands involved. Internal power dissipation is calculated in the following way: PINT  = IDDIN  VDD

The external component of total power dissipation is caused by the switching of output pins. Its magnitude depends on:

- -the number of output pins that switch during each cycle (O)
- -the maximum frequency at which they can switch (f)
- -their load capacitance (C)
- -their voltage swing (VDD)

and is calculated by: PEXT = O  C  VDD 2  f

Table 4. External Power Calculations

| Pin Type   |   No. of Pins | %Switching   |  C       |  f      |  V DD 2   | = P EXT   |
|------------|---------------|--------------|-----------|----------|------------|-----------|
| Address    |            15 | 50           |  44.7 pF |  10 MHz |  25 V     | = 0.084W  |
| MS0        |             1 | 0            |  44.7 pF |  10 MHz |  25 V     | = 0.000W  |
| WR         |             1 | -            |  44.7 pF |  20 MHz |  25 V     | = 0.022W  |
| Data       |            32 | 50           |  14.7 pF |  10 MHz |  25 V     | = 0.059W  |
| ADDRCLK    |             1 | -            |  4.7 pF  |  20 MHz |  25 V     | = 0.002W  |

PEXT = 0.167 W

A typical power consumption can now be calculated for these conditions by adding a typical internal power dissipation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Note that the conditions causing a worst-case PEXT are different from those causing a worst-case PINT. Maximum PINT cannot occur while 100% of the output pins are switching from all ones to all zeros. Note also that it is not common for an application to have 100% or even 50% of the outputs switching simultaneously.

The load capacitance should include the processor's package capacitance (CIN). The switching frequency includes driving the load high and then back low. Address and data pins can drive high and low at a maximum rate of 1/(2t CK ). The write strobe can switch every cycle at a frequency of 1/t CK . Select pins switch at 1/(2t CK ), but selects can switch on each cycle.

Example: Estimate PEXT with the following assumptions:

- A system with one bank of external data memory RAM (32-bit)
- Four 128k  8 RAM chips are used, each with a load of 10 pF
- External data memory writes occur every other cycle, a rate of 1/(4t CK ), with 50% of the pins switching
- The instruction cycle rate is 40 MHz (t CK = 25 ns)

The PEXT equation is calculated for each class of pins that can drive:

## ADSP-21061L SPECIFICATIONS

## OPERATING CONDITIONS (3.3 V)

|           |                                     | AGrade   | AGrade   | AGrade     | KGrade   | KGrade   | KGrade     |      |
|-----------|-------------------------------------|----------|----------|------------|----------|----------|------------|------|
| Parameter | Description                         | Min      | Nom      | Max        | Min      | Nom      | Max        | Unit |
| V DD      | Supply Voltage                      | 3.15     | 3.3      | 3.45       | 3.15     | 3.3      | 3.45       | V    |
| T CASE    | Case Operating Temperature          | -40      |          | +85        | 0        |          | +85        |  C  |
| V IH 1 1  | High Level Input Voltage@V DD = Max | 2.0      |          | V DD + 0.5 | 2.0      |          | V DD + 0.5 | V    |
| V IH 2 2  | High Level Input Voltage@V DD = Max | 2.2      |          | V DD + 0.5 | 2.2      |          | V DD + 0.5 | V    |
| V IL 1, 2 | Low Level Input Voltage@V DD = Min  | -0.5     |          | +0.8       | -0.5     |          | +0.8       | V    |

## ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS (3.3 V)

| Parameter        | Description                 | Test Conditions                           | Min   | Max   | Unit   |
|------------------|-----------------------------|-------------------------------------------|-------|-------|--------|
| V OH 1,2         | High Level Output Voltage   | @V DD = Min, I OH = -2.0mA                | 2.4   |       | V      |
| V OL 1, 2        | Low Level Output Voltage    | @V DD = Min, I OL = 4.0mA                 |       | 0.4   | V      |
| I IH 3, 4        | High Level Input Current    | @V DD = Max, V IN = V DD Max              |       | 10    | µA     |
| I IL 3           | Low Level Input Current     | @V DD = Max, V IN = 0 V                   |       | 10    | µA     |
| I ILP 4          | Low Level Input Current     | @V DD = Max, V IN = 0 V                   |       | 150   | µA     |
| I OZH 5, 6, 7, 8 | Three-State Leakage Current | @V DD = Max, V IN = V DD Max              |       | 10    | µA     |
| I OZL 5          | Three-State Leakage Current | @V DD = Max, V IN = 0 V                   |       | 10    | µA     |
| I OZHP           | Three-State Leakage Current | @V DD = Max, V IN = V DD Max              |       | 350   | µA     |
| I OZLC 7         | Three-State Leakage Current | @V DD = Max, V IN = 0 V                   |       | 1.5   | mA     |
| I OZLA 9         | Three-State Leakage Current | @V DD = Max, V IN = 1.5 V                 |       | 350   | µA     |
| I OZLAR 8        | Three-State Leakage Current | @V DD = Max, V IN = 0 V                   |       | 4.2   | mA     |
| I OZLS 6         | Three-State Leakage Current | @V DD = Max, V IN = 0 V                   |       | 150   | µA     |
| C IN 10, 11      | Input Capacitance           | f IN = 1 MHz, T CASE = 25°C, V IN = 2.5 V |       | 4.7   | pF     |

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

## INTERNAL POWER DISSIPATION (3.3 V)

These specifications apply to the internal power portion of V DD only. See the Power Dissipation section of this data sheet for calculation of external supply current and total supply current. For a complete discussion of the code used to measure power dissipation, see the technical note 'SHARC Power Dissipation Measurements.'

Specifications are based on the operating scenarios:

| Operation          | Peak Activity (I DDINPEAK )   | High Activity (I DDINHIGH )   | LowActivity (I DDINLOW )   |
|--------------------|-------------------------------|-------------------------------|----------------------------|
| Instruction Type   | Multifunction                 | Multifunction                 | Single Function            |
| Instruction Fetch  | Cache                         | Internal Memory               | Internal Memory            |
| Core memory Access | 2 per Cycle (DM and PM)       | 1 per Cycle (DM)              | None                       |
| InternalMemoryDMA  | 1 per Cycle                   | 1 per 2 Cycles                | 1 per 2 Cycles             |

To estimate power consumption for a specific application, use the following equation where % is the amount of time your program spends in that state:

%PEAK IDDINPEAK + %HIGH IDDINHIGH + %LOW IDDINLOW + %IDLE I DDIDLE = power consumption

| Parameter                                                  | Test Conditions                                     | Max     | Unit   |
|------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|---------|--------|
| I DDINPEAK Supply Current (Internal) 1                     | t CK = 25 ns, V DD = Max t CK = 22.5 ns, V DD = Max | 480 535 | mA mA  |
| I DDINHIGH Supply Current (Internal) 2                     | t CK = 25 ns, V DD = Max t CK = 22.5 ns, V DD = Max | 380 425 | mA mA  |
| I DDINLOW Supply Current (Internal) 3                      | t CK = 25 ns, V DD = Max t CK = 22.5 ns, V DD = Max | 220 245 | mA mA  |
| I DDIDLE Supply Current (Idle) 4 I Supply Current (Idle) 5 | V DD = Max V = Max                                  | 180 50  | mA     |
| DDIDLE                                                     | DD                                                  |         | mA     |

## EXTERNAL POWER DISSIPATION (3.3 V)

Total power dissipation has two components, one due to internal circuitry and one due to the switching of external output drivers. Internal power dissipation is dependent on the instruction execution sequence and the data operands involved. Internal power dissipation is calculated in the following way: PINT  = IDDIN  VDD

The external component of total power dissipation is caused by the switching of output pins. Its magnitude depends on:

- -the number of output pins that switch during each cycle (O)
- -the maximum frequency at which they can switch (f)
- -their load capacitance (C)
- -their voltage swing (VDD)

and is calculated by:

PEXT = O  C  VDD 2  f

Table 5. External Power Calculations

| Pin Type   |   No. of Pins | %Switching   |  C       |  f     |  V DD 2   | = P EXT   |
|------------|---------------|--------------|-----------|---------|------------|-----------|
| Address    |            15 | 50           |  44.7 pF |  10MHz |  10.9 V   | = 0.037W  |
| MS0        |             1 | 0            |  44.7 pF |  10MHz |  10.9 V   | = 0.000W  |
| WR         |             1 | -            |  44.7 pF |  20MHz |  10.9 V   | = 0.010W  |
| Data       |            32 | 50           |  14.7 pF |  10MHz |  10.9 V   | = 0.026W  |
| ADDRCLK    |             1 | -            |  4.7 pF  |  20MHz |  10.9 V   | = 0.001W  |

PEXT = 0.074 W

A typical power consumption can now be calculated for these conditions by adding a typical internal power dissipation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Note that the conditions causing a worst-case PEXT are different from those causing a worst-case PINT. Maximum PINT cannot occur while 100% of the output pins are switching from all ones to all zeros. Note also that it is not common for an application to have 100% or even 50% of the outputs switching simultaneously.

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

The load capacitance should include the processor's package capacitance (CIN). The switching frequency includes driving the load high and then back low. Address and data pins can drive high and low at a maximum rate of 1/(2t CK ). The write strobe can switch every cycle at a frequency of 1/t CK . Select pins switch at 1/(2t CK ), but selects can switch on each cycle.

Example: Estimate PEXT with the following assumptions:

- A system with one bank of external data memory RAM (32-bit)
- Four 128k  8 RAM chips are used, each with a load of 10 pF
- External data memory writes occur every other cycle, a rate of 1/(4t CK ), with 50% of the pins switching
- The instruction cycle rate is 40 MHz (t CK = 25 ns)

The PEXT equation is calculated for each class of pins that can drive:

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

## ABSOLUTE MAXIMUM RATINGS

Stresses greater than those listed below may cause permanent damage to the device. These are stress ratings only; functional operation of the device at these or any other conditions greater than those indicated in the operational sections of this specification is not implied. Exposure to absolute maximum rating conditions for extended periods may affect device reliability.

| Parameter                       | 5V                    | 3.3V                  |
|---------------------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|
| Supply Voltage (V DD )          | -0.3 V to +7.0 V      | -0.3 V to +4.6 V      |
| Input Voltage                   | -0.5 V to V DD +0.5 V | -0.5 V to V DD +0.5 V |
| Output Voltage Swing            | -0.5 V to V DD +0.5 V | -0.5 V to V DD +0.5 V |
| Load Capacitance                | 200 pF                | 200 pF                |
| Storage Temperature Range       | -65  C to +150  C   | -65  C to +150  C   |
| Lead Temperature (5 seconds)    | 280  C               | 280  C               |
| Junction Temperature Under Bias | 130  C               | 130  C               |

## ESD CAUTION

<!-- image -->

ESD  (electrostatic  discharge)  sensitive  device. Charged  devices  and  circuit  boards  can  discharge without detection. Although  this product features patented  or  proprietary  protection  circuitry,  damage may  occur  on  devices  subjected  to  high  energy  ESD. Therefore, proper ESD precautions should be taken to avoid  performance  degradation or loss of functionality.

## PACKAGE MARKING INFORMATION

The information presented in Figure 8 provides details about the package branding for the ADSP-21061 processor. For a complete listing of product availability, see Ordering Guide on Page 52.

Figure 8. Typical Package Marking (Actual Marking Format May Vary)

<!-- image -->

Table 6. Package Brand Information

| Brand Key   | Field Description   |
|-------------|---------------------|
| t           | Temperature Range   |
| pp          | Package Type        |
| Z           | Lead Free Option    |
| ccc         | See Ordering Guide  |
| vvvvvv.x    | Assembly Lot Code   |
| n.n         | Silicon Revision    |
| yyww        | Date Code           |

## TIMING SPECIFICATIONS

The timing specifications shown are based on a CLKIN frequency of 50 MHz (tCK = 20 ns). The DT derating enables the calculation of timing specifications within the min to max range of the t CK  specification (see Table 7). DT is the difference between the derated CLKIN period (tCK) and a CLKIN period of 25 ns:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Use the exact timing information given. Do not attempt to derive parameters from the addition or subtraction of others. While addition or subtraction would yield meaningful results for an individual device, the values given in this data sheet reflect statistical variations and worst cases. Consequently, you cannot meaningfully add parameters to derive longer times.

For voltage reference levels, see Figure 29 under Test Conditions.

Timing Requirements apply to signals that are controlled by circuitry external to the processor, such as the data input for a read operation. Timing requirements guarantee that the processor operates correctly with other devices. (O/D) = Open Drain, (A/D) = Active Drive.

Switching Characteristics specify how the processor changes its signals. You have no control over this timing-circuitry external to the processor must be designed for compatibility with these signal characteristics. Switching characteristics tell you what the processor will do in a given circumstance. You can also use switching characteristics to ensure that any timing requirement of a device connected to the processor (such as memory) is satisfied.

## Clock Input

## Table 7. Clock Input

Figure 9. Clock Input

|                     |                                  | ADSP-21061 50MHz,5V   | ADSP-21061 50MHz,5V   | ADSP-21061L 44 MHz, 3.3V   | ADSP-21061L 44 MHz, 3.3V   | ADSP-21061/ ADSP-21061L 40 MHz, 5Vand3.3V   | ADSP-21061/ ADSP-21061L 40 MHz, 5Vand3.3V   | ADSP-21061 33MHz,5V   | ADSP-21061 33MHz,5V   |      |
|---------------------|----------------------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|----------------------------|----------------------------|---------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|------|
| Parameter           | Parameter                        | Min                   | Max                   | Min                        | Max                        | Min                                         | Max                                         | Min                   | Max                   | Unit |
| Timing Requirements | Timing Requirements              |                       |                       |                            |                            |                                             |                                             |                       |                       |      |
| t CK                | CLKIN Period                     | 20                    | 100                   | 22.5                       | 100                        | 25                                          | 100                                         | 30                    | 100                   | ns   |
| t CKL               | CLKIN Width Low                  | 7                     |                       | 7                          |                            | 7                                           |                                             | 7                     |                       | ns   |
| t CKH               | CLKIN Width High                 | 5                     |                       | 5                          |                            | 5                                           |                                             | 5                     |                       | ns   |
| t CKRF              | CLKIN Rise/Fall (0.4 V to 2.0 V) |                       | 3                     |                            | 3                          |                                             | 3                                           |                       | 3                     | ns   |

<!-- image -->

## Reset

## Table 8. Reset

| Parameter           | Min                            | 5Vand3.3V Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------|--------------------------------|-----------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements |                                |                 |        |
| t WRST              | RESET Pulse Width Low 1 4t CK  |                 | ns     |
| t SRST RESET        | Setup Before CLKIN High 2 14 + | t CK            | ns     |

<!-- image -->

Figure 10. Reset

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

## Interrupts

## Table 9. Interrupts

| Parameter           |                                  | 5Vand3.3V Min Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------|----------------------------------|---------------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements |                                  |                     |        |
| t SIR               | IRQ2-0 Setup Before CLKIN High 1 | 18 + 3DT/4          | ns     |
| t HIR               | IRQ2-0 Hold Before CLKIN High 1  | 12 + 3DT/4          | ns     |
| t IPW               | IRQ2-0 Pulsewidth 2              | 2+t CK              | ns     |

Figure 11. Interrupts

<!-- image -->

## Timer

## Table 10. Timer

Figure 12. Timer

| Parameter                | 5Vand3.3V Max   | Unit   |
|--------------------------|-----------------|--------|
| Switching Characteristic |                 |        |
| t DTEX CLKIN             | 15              | ns     |

<!-- image -->

## Flags

Table 11. Flags

| Parameter                 |                                        | 5Vand3.3V Min Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------------|----------------------------------------|---------------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       |                                        |                     |        |
| t SFI                     | FLAG3-0 IN Setup Before CLKIN High 1   | 8 + 5DT/16          | ns     |
| t HFI                     | FLAG3-0 IN Hold After CLKIN High 1     | 0 - 5DT/16          | ns     |
| t DWRFI                   | FLAG3-0 IN Delay After RD/WR Low 1     | 5 + 7DT/16          | ns     |
| t HFIWR                   | FLAG3-0 IN Hold After RD/WR Deasserted | 0                   | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics              |                     |        |
| t DFO                     | FLAG3-0 OUT Delay After CLKIN High     | 16                  | ns     |
| t HFO                     | FLAG3-0 OUT Hold After CLKIN High      | 4                   | ns     |
| t DFOE                    | CLKIN High to FLAG3-0 OUT Enable       | 3                   | ns     |
| t DFOD                    | CLKIN High to FLAG3-0 OUT Disable      | 14                  | ns     |

Figure 13. Flags

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

## Memory Read-Bus Master

Use these specifications for asynchronous interfacing to memories (and memory-mapped peripherals) without reference to CLKIN. These specifications apply when the ADSP-21061 is the

## Table 12. Memory Read-Bus Master

| Parameter                 |                                           | 5Vand3.3V Min Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------------|-------------------------------------------|---------------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       |                                           |                     |        |
| t DAD                     | Address, Selects Delay to Data Valid 1, 2 | 18+DT+W             | ns     |
| t DRLD                    | RD Low to Data Valid 1                    | 12 + 5DT/8+W        | ns     |
| t HDA                     | Data Hold from Address, Selects 3         | 0.5                 | ns     |
| t HDRH                    | Data Hold from RD High 3                  | 2.0                 | ns     |
| t DAAK                    | ACK Delay from Address, Selects 2, 4      | 15 + 7DT/8+W        | ns     |
| t DSAK                    | ACK Delay from RD Low 4                   | 8+DT/2+W            | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                 |                     |        |
| t DRHA                    | Address, Selects Hold After RD High       | 0+H                 | ns     |
| t DARL                    | Address, Selects to RD Low 2              | 2 + 3DT/8           | ns     |
| t RW                      | RD Pulse Width                            | 12.5 + 5DT/8+W      | ns     |
| t RWR                     | RD High to WR, RD, DMAGx Low              | 8 + 3DT/8 + HI      | ns     |
| t SADADC                  | Address, Selects Setup Before ADRCLK High | 0 + DT/4            | ns     |

Figure 14. Memory Read-Bus Master

<!-- image -->

bus master accessing external memory space in asynchronous access mode. Note that timing for ACK, DATA, RD, WR, and DMAGx strobe timing parameters only applies to asynchronous access mode.

## Memory Write-Bus Master

Use these specifications for asynchronous interfacing to memories (and memory-mapped peripherals) without reference to CLKIN. These specifications apply when the ADSP-21061 is the

Table 13. Memory Write-Bus Master

| Parameter                 | Min                                           | 5Vand3.3V Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|-----------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       |                                               |                 |        |
| t DAAK                    | ACK Delay from Address, Selects 1, 2          | 15+7DT/8+W      | ns     |
| t DSAK                    | ACK Delay fromWRLow 1                         | 8+DT/2+W        | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics |                                               |                 |        |
| t DAWH                    | Address, Selects to WRDeasserted 2 17 +       | 15DT/16+W       | ns     |
| t DAWL Address, Selects   | toWRLow 2 3 + 3DT/8                           |                 | ns     |
| t WW                      | WRPulse Width 13 +                            | 9DT/16+W        | ns     |
| t DDWH Data Setup         | Before WRHigh 7+DT/2+W                        |                 | ns     |
| t DWHA                    | Address Hold After WRDeasserted 1 + DT/16+H   |                 | ns     |
| t DATRWH                  | Data Disable After WRDeasserted 3 1 + DT/16+H | 6 + DT/16+H     | ns     |
| t WWR                     | WRHigh to WR, RD,DMAGxLow 8 + 7DT/16+H        |                 | ns     |
| t DDWR                    | Data Disable Before WRor RD Low 5 + 3DT/8     |                 | ns     |
| t WDE WRLowtoData         | Enabled -1 + DT/16                            |                 | ns     |
| t SADADC Address, Selects | to ADRCLK High 2 0 + DT/4                     |                 | ns     |

W = (number of wait states specified in WAIT register) × tCK.

- H = tCK (if an address hold cycle occurs, as specified in WAIT register; otherwise H = 0).

I = tCK (if a bus idle cycle occurs, as specified in WAIT register; otherwise I = 0).

1 ACK delay/setup: User must meet tDAAK or tDSAK or synchronous specification tSAKC for deassertion of ACK (low), all three specifications must be met for assertion of ACK (high).

2 The falling edge of MSx, SW, BMS is referenced.

3 For more information, see Example System Hold Time Calculation on Page 43 for calculation of hold times given capacitive and dc loads.

Figure 15. Memory Write-Bus Master

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

bus master accessing external memory space in asynchronous access mode. Note that timing for ACK, DATA, RD, WR, and DMAGx strobe timing parameters only applies to asynchronous access mode.

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

## Synchronous Read/Write-Bus Master

Use these specifications for interfacing to external memory systems that require CLKIN-relative timing or for accessing a slave ADSP-21061 (in multiprocessor memory space). These synchronous switching characteristics are also valid during asynchronous memory reads and writes except where noted (see Memory Read-Bus Master on Page 24 and Memory Write-

## Table 14. Synchronous Read/Write-Bus Master

| Parameter                 |                                                  | 5Vand3.3V Min Max                      | Unit   |
|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       |                                                  |                                        |        |
| t SSDATI                  | Data Setup Before CLKIN (50 MHz, t CK = 20 ns) 1 | 2 + DT/8 1.5 + DT/8                    | ns     |
| t HSDATI                  | Data Hold After CLKIN                            | 3.5 - DT/8                             | ns     |
| t DAAK                    | ACK Delay After Address, Selects 2, 3            | 15 + 7DT/8+W                           | ns     |
| t SACKC t HACK            | ACK Setup Before CLKIN 3 ACK Hold After CLKIN    | 6.5+DT/4 -1 - DT/4                     | ns     |
|                           | Address, MSx, BMS, SWDelay                       |                                        | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics |                                                  |                                        |        |
| t DADRO                   | After CLKIN 2                                    | 6.5 - DT/8                             | ns     |
| t HADRO                   | Address, MSx, BMS, SWHold After CLKIN            | -1 - DT/8                              | ns     |
| t DPGC                    | PAGE Delay After CLKIN                           | 9 + DT/8 16 + DT/8                     | ns     |
| t DRDO                    | RD High Delay After CLKIN                        | -1.5 - DT/8 4 - DT/8 4 - 3DT/16        | ns     |
| t DWRO                    | WRHigh Delay After CLKIN (50 MHz, t CK = 20 ns)  | -2.5 - 3DT/16 -1.5 - 3DT/16 4 - 3DT/16 | ns     |
| t DRWL                    | RD/WR Low Delay After CLKIN                      | 8 + DT/4 12 + DT/4                     | ns     |
| t SDDATO Data             | Delay After CLKIN Data Disable After CLKIN 4     | 19 + 5DT/16                            | ns     |
| t DATTR                   |                                                  | 0 - DT/8 7 - DT/8                      | ns     |
| t DADCCK                  | ADRCLK Delay After CLKIN                         | 4 + DT/8 10 + DT/8                     | ns     |
| t ADRCK                   | ADRCLK Period                                    | t CK                                   | ns     |
| t ADRCKH                  | ADRCLK Width High                                | (t CK /2 - 2)                          | ns     |
| t ADRCKL                  | ADRCLK Width Low                                 | (t CK /2 - 2)                          | ns     |

1 This specification applies to the ADSP-21061KS-200 (5 V, 50 MHz) operating at tCK &lt; 25 ns. For all other devices, use the preceding timing specification of the same name.

2 The falling edge of MSx, SW, BMS is referenced.

3 ACK delay/setup: User must meet tDAAK or tDSAK or synchronous specification tSAKC for deassertion of ACK (low), all three specifications must be met for assertion of ACK (high).

4 See Example System Hold Time Calculation on Page 43 for calculation of hold times given capacitive and dc loads.

Bus Master on Page 25). When accessing a slave ADSP-21061, these switching characteristics must meet the slave's timing requirements for synchronous read/writes (see Synchronous Read/Write-Bus Slave on Page 28). The slave ADSP-21061 must also meet these (bus master) timing requirements for data and acknowledge setup and hold times.

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

Figure 16. Synchronous Read/Write-Bus Master

<!-- image -->

## Synchronous Read/Write-Bus Slave

Use these specifications for ADSP-21061 bus master accesses of a slave's IOP registers or internal memory (in multiprocessor memory space). The bus master must meet these (bus slave) timing requirements.

## Table 15. Synchronous Read/Write-Bus Slave

| Parameter                 |                                            | 5Vand3.3V Min Max         |                       | Unit   |
|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------|---------------------------|-----------------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       |                                            |                           |                       |        |
| t SADRI                   | Address, SWSetup Before CLKIN              | 14 + DT/2                 |                       | ns     |
| t HADRI                   | Address, SWHold After CLKIN                |                           | 5 + DT/2              | ns     |
| t SRWLI                   | RD/WR Low Setup Before CLKIN 1             | 8.5 + 5DT/16              |                       | ns     |
| t HRWLI                   | RD/WR Low Hold After CLKIN 44 MHz/50 MHz 2 | -4 - 5DT/16 -3.5 - 5DT/16 | 8 + 7DT/16 8 + 7DT/16 | ns     |
| t RWHPI                   | RD/WR Pulse High                           | 3                         |                       | ns     |
| t SDATWH                  | Data Setup Before WRHigh                   | 3                         |                       | ns     |
| t HDATWH                  | Data Hold After WRHigh                     | 1                         |                       | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                  |                           |                       |        |
| t SDDATO                  | Data Delay After CLKIN                     |                           | 19 + 5DT/16           | ns     |
| t DATTR                   | Data Disable After CLKIN 3                 | 0 - DT/8                  | 7 - DT/8              | ns     |
| t DACKAD                  | ACK Delay After Address,SW 4               |                           | 8                     | ns     |
| t ACKTR                   | ACK Disable After CLKIN 2                  | -1 - DT/8                 | 6 - DT/8              | ns     |

1 tSRWLI (min) = 9.5 + 5DT/16 when multiprocessor memory space wait state (MMSWS bit in WAIT register) is disabled; when MMSWS is enabled, tSRWLI (min)= 4 + DT/8.

2 This specification applies to the ADSP-21061LKS-176 (3.3 V, 44 MHz) and the ADSP-21061KS-200 (5 V, 50 MHz), operating at tCK &lt; 25 ns. For all other devices, use the preceding timing specification of the same name.

3 See Example System Hold Time Calculation on Page 43 for calculation of hold times given capacitive and dc loads.

4 t DACKAD is true only if the address and SW inputs have setup times (before CLKIN) greater than 10 + DT/8 and less than 19 + 3DT/4. If the address and inputs have setup times greater than 19 + 3DT/4, then ACK is valid 14 + DT/4 (max) after CLKIN. A slave that sees an address with an M field match will respond with ACK regardless of the state of MMSWS or strobes. A slave will three-state ACK every cycle with t ACKTR .

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

Figure 17. Synchronous Read/Write-Bus Slave

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

## Multiprocessor Bus Request and Host Bus Request

Use these specifications for passing of bus mastership between multiprocessing ADSP-21061s (BRx) or a host processor, both synchronous and asynchronous (HBR, HBG).

Table 16. Multiprocessor Bus Request and Host Bus Request

|                           |                                                     | 5Vand3.3V    | 5Vand3.3V   |      |
|---------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|--------------|-------------|------|
| Parameter                 |                                                     | Min          | Max         | Unit |
| Timing Requirements       | Timing Requirements                                 |              |             |      |
| t HBGRCSV                 | HBG Low to RD/WR/CS Valid 1                         |              | 20 + 5DT/4  | ns   |
| t SHBRI                   | HBR Setup Before CLKIN 2                            | 20 + 3DT/4   |             | ns   |
| t HHBRI                   | HBR Hold After CLKIN 2                              |              | 14 + 3DT/4  | ns   |
| t SHBGI                   | HBG Setup Before CLKIN                              | 13 + DT/2    |             | ns   |
| t HHBGI                   | HBG Hold After CLKIN High                           |              | 6 + DT/2    | ns   |
| t SBRI                    | BRx, CPA Setup Before CLKIN 3                       | 13 + DT/2    |             | ns   |
| t HBRI                    | BRx, CPA Hold After CLKIN High                      |              | 6 + DT/2    | ns   |
| t SRPBAI                  | RPBA Setup Before CLKIN                             | 20 + 3DT/4   |             | ns   |
| t HRPBAI                  | RPBA Hold After CLKIN                               |              | 12 + 3DT/4  | ns   |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                           |              |             |      |
| t DHBGO                   | HBG Delay After CLKIN                               |              | 7 - DT/8    | ns   |
| t HHBGO                   | HBG Hold After CLKIN                                | -2 - DT/8    |             | ns   |
| t DBRO                    | BRx Delay After CLKIN                               |              | 5.5 - DT/8  | ns   |
| t HBRO                    | BRx Hold After CLKIN                                | -2 - DT/8    |             | ns   |
| t DCPAO                   | CPA Low Delay After CLKIN 4                         |              | 6.5 - DT/8  | ns   |
| t TRCPA                   | CPA Disable After CLKIN                             | -2 - DT/8    | 4.5 - DT/8  | ns   |
| t DRDYCS                  | REDY (O/D) or (A/D) Low from CS and HBR Low 5, 6    |              | 8           | ns   |
| t TRDYHG                  | REDY (O/D) Disable or REDY (A/D) High from HBG 5, 7 | 44 + 27DT/16 |             | ns   |
| t ARDYTR                  | REDY (A/D) Disable from CS or HBR High 5            |              | 10          | ns   |

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

Figure 18. Multiprocessor Bus Request and Host Bus Request

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

## Asynchronous Read/Write-Host to ADSP-21061

Use these specifications for asynchronous host processor accesses of an ADSP-21061, after the host has asserted CS and HBR (low). After HBG is returned by the ADSP-21061, the host

Table 17. Read Cycle

|                           |                                              | 5Vand3.3V   | 5Vand3.3V   |      |
|---------------------------|----------------------------------------------|-------------|-------------|------|
| Parameter                 |                                              | Min         | Max         | Unit |
| Timing Requirements       | Timing Requirements                          |             |             |      |
| t SADRDL                  | Address Setup/CS Low Before RD Low 1         | 0           |             | ns   |
| t HADRDH                  | Address Hold/CS Hold Low After RD            | 0           |             | ns   |
| t WRWH                    | RD/WR High Width                             | 6           |             | ns   |
| t DRDHRDY                 | RD High Delay After REDY (O/D) Disable       | 0           |             | ns   |
| t DRDHRDY                 | RD High Delay After REDY (A/D) Disable       | 0           |             | ns   |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                    |             |             |      |
| t SDATRDY                 | Data Valid Before REDY Disable from Low      | 2           |             | ns   |
| t DRDYRDL                 | REDY (O/D) or (A/D) Low Delay After RD Low 2 |             | 10          | ns   |
| t RDYPRD                  | REDY (O/D) or (A/D) Low Pulsewidth for Read  | 45 + DT     |             | ns   |
| t HDARWH                  | Data Disable After RD High                   | 2           | 8           | ns   |

## Table 18. Write Cycle

|                           |                                                 | 5Vand3.3V   | 5Vand3.3V   |
|---------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|-------------|-------------|
| Parameter                 |                                                 | Min         | Unit        |
| Timing Requirements       | Timing Requirements                             |             |             |
| t SCSWRL                  | CS Low Setup BeforeWRLow                        | 0           | ns          |
| t HCSWRH                  | CS Low Hold After WRHigh                        | 0           | ns          |
| t SADWRH                  | Address Setup Before WRHigh                     | 5           | ns          |
| t HADWRH                  | Address Hold After WRHigh                       | 2           | ns          |
| t WWRL                    | WRLowWidth                                      | 8           | ns          |
| t WRWH                    | RD/WR High Width                                | 6           | ns          |
| t DWRHRDY                 | WRHigh Delay After REDY (O/D) or (A/D) Disable  | 0           | ns          |
| t SDATWH                  | Data Setup Before WRHigh 50 MHz, t CK = 20 ns 1 | 3 2.5       | ns          |
| t HDATWH                  | Data Hold After WRHigh                          | 1           | ns          |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                       |             |             |
| t DRDYWRL                 | REDY (O/D) or (A/D) Low Delay After WR/CS Low 2 |             | ns          |
| t RDYPWR                  | REDY (O/D) or (A/D) Low Pulsewidth for Write    | 15          | ns          |
| t SRDYCK                  | REDY (O/D) or (A/D) Disable to CLKIN            | 1 + 7DT/16  | ns          |

can drive the RD and WR pins to access the ADSP-21061's internal memory or IOP registers. HBR and HBG are assumed low for this timing.

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

Figure 19. Synchronous REDY Timing

<!-- image -->

Figure 20. Asynchronous Read/Write-Host to ADSP-21061

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

## Three-State Timing-Bus Master, Bus Slave, HBR, SBTS

These specifications show how the memory interface is disabled (stops driving) or enabled (resumes driving) relative to CLKIN and the SBTS pin. This timing is applicable to bus master transition cycles (BTC) and host transition cycles (HTC) as well as the SBTS pin.

## Table 19. Three-State Timing-Bus Master, Bus Slave

| Parameter                 |                                          | 5Vand3.3V Min Max   |            | Unit   |
|---------------------------|------------------------------------------|---------------------|------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       | Timing Requirements                      |                     |            |        |
| t STSCK                   | SBTS Setup Before CLKIN                  | 12 + DT/2           |            | ns     |
| t HTSCK                   | SBTS Hold Before CLKIN                   |                     | 6 + DT/2   | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics                |                     |            |        |
| t MIENA                   | Address/Select Enable After CLKIN        | -1 - DT/8           |            | ns     |
| t MIENS                   | Strobes Enable After CLKIN 1             | -1.5 - DT/8         |            | ns     |
| t MIENHG                  | HBG Enable After CLKIN                   | -1.5 - DT/8         |            | ns     |
| t MITRA                   | Address/Select Disable After CLKIN       |                     | 0 - DT/4   | ns     |
| t MITRS                   | Strobes Disable After CLKIN 1            |                     | 1.5 - DT/4 | ns     |
| t MITRHG                  | HBG Disable After CLKIN                  |                     | 2.0 - DT/4 | ns     |
| t DATEN                   | Data Enable After CLKIN 2                | 9 + 5DT/16          |            | ns     |
| t DATTR                   | Data Disable After CLKIN 2               | 0 - DT/8            | 7 - DT/8   | ns     |
| t ACKEN                   | ACK Enable After CLKIN 2                 | 7.5 + DT/4          |            | ns     |
| t ACKTR                   | ACK Disable After CLKIN 2                | -1 - DT/8           | 6 - DT/8   | ns     |
| t ADCEN                   | ADRCLK Enable After CLKIN                | -2 - DT/8           |            | ns     |
| t ADCTR                   | ADRCLK Disable After CLKIN               |                     | 8 - DT/4   | ns     |
| t MTRHBG                  | Memory Interface Disable Before HBG Low  | 0 + DT/8            |            | ns     |
| t MENHBG                  | Memory Interface Enable After HBG High 3 | 19 + DT             |            | ns     |

1 Strobes = RD, WR, PAGE, DMAGx, MSx, BMS, SW.

2 In addition to bus master transition cycles, these specs also apply to bus master and bus slave synchronous read/write.

3 Memory Interface = Address, RD, WR, MSx, SW, PAGE, DMAGx, and BMS (in EPROM boot mode).

Figure 21. Three-State Timing (Bus Transition Cycle, SBTS Assertion)

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

Figure 22. Three-State Timing (Bus Transition Cycle, SBTS Assertion)

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

## DMA Handshake

These specifications describe the three DMA handshake modes. In all three modes, DMARx is used to initiate transfers. For Handshake mode, DMAGx controls the latching or enabling of data externally. For External Handshake mode, the data transfer is controlled by the ADDR31-0, RD, WR, SW, PAGE, MS3-0,

Table 20. DMA Handshake

| Parameter                 |                                        | Min            | 5Vand3.3V Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------------|----------------------------------------|----------------|-----------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       | Timing Requirements                    |                |                 |        |
| t SDRLC                   | DMARx Low Setup Before CLKIN 1         | 5              |                 | ns     |
| t SDRHC                   | DMARx High Setup Before CLKIN 1        | 5              |                 | ns     |
| t WDR                     | DMARx Width Low (Nonsynchronous)       | 6              |                 | ns     |
| t SDATDGL                 | Data Setup AfterDMAGxLow 2             |                | 10 + 5DT/8      | ns     |
| t HDATIDG                 | Data Hold AfterDMAGx High              | 2              |                 | ns     |
| t DATDRH                  | Data Valid After DMARxHigh 2           |                | 16 + 7DT/8      | ns     |
| t DMARLL                  | DMARx Low Edge to Low Edge 3           | 23 + 7DT/8     |                 | ns     |
| t DMARH                   | DMARx Width High                       | 6              |                 | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics              |                |                 |        |
| t DDGL                    | DMAGx Low Delay After CLKIN            | 9 + DT/4       | 15 + DT/4       | ns     |
| t WDGH                    | DMAGx High Width                       | 6 + 3DT/8      |                 | ns     |
| t WDGL                    | DMAGx Low Width                        | 12 + 5DT/8     |                 | ns     |
| t HDGC                    | DMAGx High Delay After CLKIN           | -2 - DT/8      | 6 - DT/8        | ns     |
| t VDATDGH                 | Data Valid Before DMAGxHigh 4          | 8 + 9DT/16     |                 | ns     |
| t DATRDGH                 | Data Disable AfterDMAGx High 5         | 0              | 7               | ns     |
| t DGWRL                   | WRLowBeforeDMAGx Low                   | 0              | 2               | ns     |
| t DGWRH                   | DMAGx Low Before WRHigh                | 10 + 5DT/8+W   |                 | ns     |
| t DGWRR                   | WRHigh BeforeDMAGx High                | 1 + DT/16      | 3 + DT/16       | ns     |
| t DGRDL                   | RD Low Before DMAGxLow                 | 0              | 2               | ns     |
| t DRDGH                   | RD Low Before DMAGxHigh                | 11 + 9DT/16+W  |                 | ns     |
| t DGRDR                   | RD High BeforeDMAGx High               | 0              | 3               | ns     |
| t DGWR                    | DMAGx High to WR, RD, DMAGx Low        | 5 + 3DT/8 + HI |                 | ns     |
| t DADGH                   | Address/Select Valid to DMAGx High     | 17 + DT        |                 | ns     |
| t DDGHA                   | Address/Select Hold after DMAGx High 6 | -0.5           |                 | ns     |

W = (number of wait states specified in WAIT register) × t CK.

HI = tCK (if data bus idle cycle occurs, as specified in WAIT register; otherwise HI = 0).

1 Only required for recognition in the current cycle.

2 t SDATDGL is the data setup requirement if DMARx is not being used to hold off completion of a write. Otherwise, if DMARx low holds off completion of the write, the data can be driven t DATDRH after DMARx is brought high.

3 For the ADSP-21061L (3.3 V), this specification is 23.5 + 7DT/8 ns min.

4 t VDATDGH is valid if DMARx is not being used to hold off completion of a read. If DMARx is used to prolong the read, then t VDATDGH = t CK - .25t CCLK - 8 + (n × t CK ) where n equals the number of extra cycles that the access is prolonged.

5 See Example System Hold Time Calculation on Page 43 for calculation of hold times given capacitive and dc loads.

6 For the ADSP-21061L (3.3 V), this specification is -1.0 ns min.

ACK, and DMAGx signals. For Paced Master mode, the data transfer is controlled by ADDR31-0, RD, WR, MS3-0, and ACK (not DMAG). For Paced Master mode, the Memory ReadBus Master, Memory Write-Bus Master, and Synchronous Read/Write-Bus Master timing specifications for ADDR31-0, RD, WR, MS3-0, SW, PAGE, DATA47-0, and ACK also apply.

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

<!-- image -->

*MEMORY READ BU S MA S TER, MEMORY WRITE BU S MA S TER, OR S YNCHRONOU S READ/WRITE BU S MA S TER TIMING S PECIFICATION S FOR ADDR 3 1-0, RD , WR , SW MS3-0 , AND ACK AL S OAPPLY HERE.

Figure 23. DMA Handshake

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

## Serial Ports

To determine whether communication is possible between two devices at clock speed n, the following specifications must be confirmed: 1) frame sync delay and frame sync setup and hold, 2) data delay and data setup and hold, and 3) SCLK width.

## Table 21. Serial Ports-External Clock

| Parameter           |                                   | 5Vand3.3V Min Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------|-----------------------------------|---------------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements | Timing Requirements               |                     |        |
| t SFSE              | TFS/RFS Setup Before TCLK/RCLK 1  | 3.5                 | ns     |
| t HFSE              | TFS/RFS Hold After TCLK/RCLK 1, 2 | 4                   | ns     |
| t SDRE              | Receive Data Setup Before RCLK 1  | 1.5                 | ns     |
| t HDRE              | Receive Data Hold After RCLK 1    | 4                   | ns     |
| t SCLKW             | TCLK/RCLK Width                   | 9                   | ns     |
| t SCLK              | TCLK/RCLK Period                  | t CK                | ns     |

## Table 22. Serial Ports-Internal Clock

| Parameter           |                                                   | 5 Vand3.3V Min Max   |        | Unit   |
|---------------------|---------------------------------------------------|----------------------|--------|--------|
| Timing Requirements | Timing Requirements                               |                      |        |        |
| SFSI                | TFS Setup Before TCLK 1 ; RFS Setup Before RCLK 1 | 8                    | t      | ns     |
| HFSI                | TFS/RFS Hold After TCLK/RCLK 1, 2                 | 1                    | t      | ns     |
| SDRI                | Receive Data Setup Before RCLK 1                  | 3                    | t      | ns     |
|                     | Receive Data Hold After RCLK 1                    | 3                    | t HDRI | ns     |

## Table 23. Serial Ports-External or Internal Clock

| Parameter                 |                                                   | 5Vand3.3V Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|-----------------|--------|
| Switching Characteristics |                                                   |                 |        |
| t DFSE                    | RFS Delay After RCLK (Internally Generated RFS) 1 | 13              | ns     |
| t HOFSE                   | RFS Hold After RCLK (Internally Generated RFS) 1  |                 | ns     |

## Table 24. Serial Ports-External Clock

| Parameter                 |                                                   | 5Vand3.3V Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|-----------------|--------|
| Switching Characteristics |                                                   |                 |        |
| t DFSE                    | TFS Delay After TCLK (Internally Generated TFS) 1 | 13              | ns     |
| t HOFSE                   | TFS Hold After TCLK (Internally Generated TFS) 1  |                 | ns     |
| t DDTE                    | Transmit Data Delay After TCLK 1                  | 16              | ns     |
| t HODTE                   | Transmit Data Hold After TCLK 1                   |                 | ns     |

## Table 25. Serial Ports-Internal Clock

| Parameter                 |                                                   | 5Vand3.3V Min Max     | Unit   |
|---------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|-----------------------|--------|
| Switching Characteristics |                                                   |                       |        |
| t DFSI                    | TFS Delay After TCLK (Internally Generated TFS) 1 | 4.5                   | ns     |
| t HOFSI                   | TFS Hold After TCLK (Internally Generated TFS) 1  | -1.5                  | ns     |
| t DDTI                    | Transmit Data Delay After TCLK 1                  | 7.5                   | ns     |
| t HDTI                    | Transmit Data Hold After TCLK 1                   | 0                     | ns     |
| t SCLKIW                  | TCLK/RCLK Width                                   | t SCLK /2 -1.5 t SCLK | ns     |

1 Referenced to drive edge.

## Table 26. Serial Ports-Enable and Three-State

| Parameter                 |                                     | 5Vand3.3V Min Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------------|-------------------------------------|---------------------|--------|
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics           |                     |        |
| t DDTEN                   | Data Enable from External TCLK 1, 2 | 4.5                 | ns     |
| t DDTTE                   | Data Disable from External TCLK 1   | 10.5                | ns     |
| t DDTIN                   | Data Enable from Internal TCLK 1    | 0                   | ns     |
| t DDTTI                   | Data Disable from Internal TCLK 1   | 3                   | ns     |
| t DCLK                    | TCLK/RCLK Delay from CLKIN          | 22 + 3DT/8          | ns     |
| t DPTR                    | SPORT Disable After CLKIN           | 17                  | ns     |

1 Referenced to drive edge.

2 For the ADSP-21061L (3.3 V), this specification is 3.5 ns min.

## Table 27. Serial Ports-External Late Frame Sync

| Parameter                 |                                                                        | 5Vand3.3V Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|--------|
| Switching Characteristics |                                                                        |                 |        |
| t DDTLFSE                 | Data Delay from Late External TFS or External RFS with MCE = 1,MFD=0 1 | 12              | ns     |
| t DDTENFS                 | Data Enable from Late FS or MCE = 1,MFD=0 1                            |                 | ns     |

1 MCE = 1, TFS enable and TFS valid follow tDDTLFSE and t DDTENFS .

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

<!-- image -->

NOTE: EITHER THE RI S ING EDGE OR FALLING EDGE OF RCLK, TCLK CAN BE U S ED A S THE ACTIVE S AMPLING EDGE.

DATA TRAN

S

MIT- INTERNAL CLOCK

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

DATA TRAN

S

MIT- EXTERNAL CLOCK

NOTE: EITHER THE RI S ING EDGE OR FALLING EDGE OF RCLK, TCLK CAN BE U S ED A S THE ACTIVE S AMPLING EDGE.

Figure 24. Serial Ports

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

## EXTERNAL RFS WITH MCE = 1, MFD = 0

<!-- image -->

## LATE EXTERNAL TFS

Figure 25. Serial Ports-External Late Frame Sync

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

## JTAG Test Access Port and Emulation

For JTAG Test Access Port and Emulation, see Table 28 and Figure 26.

## Table 28. JTAG Test Access Port and Emulation

| Parameter                 |                                      | 5Vand3.3V Min   | Max   | Unit   |
|---------------------------|--------------------------------------|-----------------|-------|--------|
| Timing Requirements       | Timing Requirements                  |                 |       |        |
| t TCK                     | TCK Period                           | t CK            |       | ns     |
| t STAP                    | TDI, TMS Setup Before TCK High       | t CK            |       | ns     |
| t HTAP                    | TDI, TMS Hold After TCK High         | 6               |       | ns     |
| t SSYS                    | System Inputs Setup Before TCK Low 1 | 7               |       | ns     |
| t HSYS                    | System Inputs Hold After TCK Low 1   | 18              |       | ns     |
| t TRSTW                   | TRST Pulse Width                     | 4t CK           |       | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics | Switching Characteristics            |                 |       |        |
| t DTDO                    | TDODelay from TCK Low                |                 | 13    | ns     |
| t DSYS                    | System Outputs Delay After TCK Low 2 |                 | 18.5  | ns     |

Figure 26. JTAG Test Access Port and Emulation

<!-- image -->

## TEST CONDITIONS

## Output Disable Time

Output pins are considered to be disabled when they stop driving, go into a high impedance state, and start to decay from their output high or low voltage. The time for the voltage on the bus to decay by  V is dependent on the capacitive load, CL, and the load current, IL. This decay time can be approximated by the following equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The output disable time t DIS is the difference between t MEASURED and t DECAY as shown in Figure 27. The time t MEASURED is the interval from when the reference signal switches to when the output voltage decays  V from the measured output high or output low voltage. t DECAY is calculated with test loads CL and IL, and with  V equal to 0.5 V.

## Output Enable Time

Output pins are considered to be enabled when they have made a transition from a high impedance state to when they start driving. The output enable time t ENA is the interval from when a reference signal reaches a high or low voltage level to when the output has reached a specified high or low trip point, as shown in the Output Enable/Disable diagram (Figure 27). If multiple pins (such as the data bus) are enabled, the measurement value is that of the first pin to start driving.

## Example System Hold Time Calculation

To determine the data output hold time in a particular system, first calculate t DECAY using the equation given above. Choose  V to be the difference between the ADSP-21061's output voltage and the input threshold for the device requiring the hold time. A typical  V will be 0.4 V. CL is the total bus capacitance (per data line), and I L is the total leakage or three-state current (per data line). The hold time will be t DECAY plus the minimum disable time (i.e., t DATRWH for the write cycle).

Figure 27. Output Enable/Disable

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

Figure 28. Equivalent Device Loading for AC Measurements (Includes All Fixtures)

<!-- image -->

Figure 29. Voltage Reference Levels for AC Measurements (Except Output Enable/Disable)

<!-- image -->

## Output Drive Characteristics

Figure 30 through Figure 37 show typical characteristics for the output drivers of the ADSP-21061 (5 V) and ADSP-21061L (3 V). The curves represent the current drive capability and switching behavior of the output drivers as a function of resistive and capacitive loading.

## Capacitive Loading

Output delays and holds are based on standard capacitive loads: 50 pF on all pins (see Figure 28). The delay and hold specifications given should be derated by a factor of 1.5 ns/50 pF for loads other than the nominal value of 50 pF. Figure 31, Figure 32, Figure 35, and Figure 36 show how output rise time varies with capacitance. Figure 33 and Figure 37 show graphically how output delays and holds vary with load capacitance. (Note that this graph or derating does not apply to output disable delays; see the previous section Output Disable Time under Test Conditions.) The graphs of Figure 31, Figure 32, Figure 35, and Figure 36 may not be linear outside the ranges shown.

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

## Output Characteristics (5 V)

<!-- image -->

Figure 30. Typical Output Drive Currents (V DD = 5 V)

<!-- image -->

Figure 31. Typical Output Rise Time (10% to 90% V DD ) vs. Load Capacitance (V DD = 5 V)

Figure 32. Typical Output Rise Time (0.8 V to 2.0 V) vs. Load Capacitance (V DD = 5 V)

<!-- image -->

Figure 33. Typical Output Delay or Hold vs. Load Capacitance (at Maximum Case Temperature) (VDD = 5 V)

<!-- image -->

## Input/Output Characteristics (3.3 V)

Figure 34. Typical Drive Currents (V DD = 3.3 V)

<!-- image -->

Figure 35. Typical Output Rise Time (10% to 90% V DD ) vs. Load Capacitance (VDD = 3.3 V)

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

Figure 36. Typical Output Rise Time (0.8 V to 2.0 V) vs. Load Capacitance (V DD = 3.3 V)

<!-- image -->

Figure 37. Typical Output Delay or Hold vs. Load Capacitance (at Maximum Case Temperature) (VDD = 3.3 V)

<!-- image -->

## ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS

## Thermal Characteristics

The ADSP-21061 is available in 240-lead thermally enhanced MQFP package. The top surface of the thermally enhanced MQFP contains a metal slug from which most of the die heat is dissipated. The slug is flush with the top surface of the package. Note that the metal slug is internally connected to GND through the device substrate.

The ADSP-21061L is available in 240-lead MQFP and 225-ball plastic BGA packages.

All packages are specified for a case temperature (TCASE). To ensure that the TCASE is not exceeded, a heatsink and/or an airflow source may be used. A heat sink should be attached with a thermal adhesive.

TCASE = TAMB + (PD  CA)

TCASE = Case temperature (measured on top surface of package)

TAMB = Ambient temperature  C

PD =Power dissipation in W (this value depends upon the specific application; a method for calculating PD is shown under Power Dissipation).

 CA =Value from tables below.

## Table 29. ADSP-21061 (5 V Thermally Enhanced ED/MQFP Package)

| Parameter   | Condition (Linear Ft./Min.)   |   Typical | Unit   |
|-------------|-------------------------------|-----------|--------|
|  CA        | Airflow = 0                   |        10 | °C/W   |
|             | Airflow = 100                 |         9 |        |
|             | Airflow = 200                 |         8 |        |
|             | Airflow = 400                 |         7 |        |
|             | Airflow = 600                 |         6 |        |

Table 30. ADSP-21061L (3.3 V MQFP Package)

| Parameter   | Condition (Linear Ft./Min.)   |   Typical | Unit   |
|-------------|-------------------------------|-----------|--------|
|  CA        | Airflow = 0                   |      19.6 | °C/W   |
|             | Airflow = 100                 |      17.6 |        |
|             | Airflow = 200                 |      15.6 |        |
|             | Airflow = 400                 |      13.9 |        |
|             | Airflow = 600                 |      12.2 |        |

## Table 31. ADSP-21061L (3.3 V PBGA Package)

| Parameter   | Condition (Linear Ft./Min.)   |   Typical | Unit   |
|-------------|-------------------------------|-----------|--------|
|  CA        | Airflow = 0                   |      19   | °C/W   |
|             | Airflow = 200                 |      13.6 |        |
|             | Airflow = 400                 |      11.2 |        |

## 225-BALL PBGA PIN CONFIGURATIONS

Table 32. ADSP-21061L 225-Lead Metric PBGA (B-225-2) Pin Assignments

| Pin Name   | PBGA PinNumber   | Pin Name   | PBGA PinNumber   | Pin Name   | PBGA PinNumber   | Pin Name    | PBGA PinNumber   | Pin Name   | PBGA PinNumber   |
|------------|------------------|------------|------------------|------------|------------------|-------------|------------------|------------|------------------|
| BMS        | A01              | ADDR25     | D01              | ADDR14     | G01              | ADDR6       | K01              | EMU        | N01              |
| ADDR30     | A02              | ADDR26     | D02              | ADDR15     | G02              | ADDR5       | K02              | TDO        | N02              |
| DMAR2      | A03              | MS2        | D03              | ADDR16     | G03              | ADDR3       | K03              | IRQ0       | N03              |
| DT1        | A04              | ADDR29     | D04              | ADDR19     | G04              | ADDR0       | K04              | IRQ1       | N04              |
| RCLK1      | A05              | DMAR1      | D05              | GND        | G05              | ICSA        | K05              | ID2        | N05              |
| TCLK0      | A06              | TFS1       | D06              | V DD       | G06              | GND         | K06              | NC         | N06              |
| RCLK0      | A07              | CPA        | D07              | V DD       | G07              | V DD        | K07              | NC         | N07              |
| ADRCLK     | A08              | HBG        | D08              | V DD       | G08              | V DD        | K08              | NC         | N08              |
| CS         | A09              | DMAG2      | D09              | V DD       | G09              | V DD        | K09              | NC         | N09              |
| CLKIN      | A10              | BR5        | D10              | V DD       | G10              | GND         | K10              | NC         | N10              |
| PAGE       | A11              | BR1        | D11              | GND        | G11              | GND         | K11              | NC         | N11              |
| BR3        | A12              | DATA40     | D12              | DATA22     | G12              | DATA8       | K12              | NC         | N12              |
| DATA47     | A13              | DATA37     | D13              | DATA25     | G13              | DATA11      | K13              | NC         | N13              |
| DATA44     | A14              | DATA35     | D14              | DATA24     | G14              | DATA13      | K14              | DATA1      | N14              |
| DATA42     | A15              | DATA34     | D15              | DATA23     | G15              | DATA14      | K15              | DATA3      | N15              |
| MS0        | B01              | ADDR21     | E01              | ADDR12     | H01              | ADDR2       | L01              | TRST       | P01              |
| SW         | B02              | ADDR22     | E02              | ADDR11     | H02              | ADDR1       | L02              | TMS        | P02              |
| ADDR31     | B03              | ADDR24     | E03              | ADDR13     | H03              | FLAG0       | L03              | EBOOT      | P03              |
| HBR        | B04              | ADDR27     | E04              | ADDR10     | H04              | FLAG3       | L04              | ID0        | P04              |
| DR1        | B05              | GND        | E05              | GND        | H05              | RPBA        | L05              | NC         | P05              |
| DT0        | B06              | GND        | E06              | V DD       | H06              | GND         | L06              | NC         | P06              |
| DR0        | B07              | GND        | E07              | V DD       | H07              | GND         | L07              | NC         | P07              |
| REDY       | B08              | GND        | E08              | V DD       | H08              | GND         | L08              | NC         | P08              |
| RD         | B09              | GND        | E09              | V DD       | H09              | GND         | L09              | NC         | P09              |
| ACK        | B10              | GND        | E10              | V DD       | H10              | GND         | L10              | NC         | P10              |
| BR6        | B11              | NC         | E11              | GND        | H11              | NC          | L11              | NC         | P11              |
| BR2        | B12              | DATA33     | E12              | DATA18     | H12              | DATA4       | L12              | NC         | P12              |
| DATA45     | B13              | DATA30     | E13              | DATA19     | H13              | DATA7       | L13              | NC         | P13              |
| DATA43     | B14              | DATA32     | E14              | DATA21     | H14              | DATA9       | L14              | NC         | P14              |
| DATA39     | B15              | DATA31     | E15              | DATA20     | H15              | DATA10      | L15              | DATA0      | P15              |
| MS3        | C01              | ADDR17     | F01              | ADDR9      | J01              | FLAG1       | M01              | TCK        | R01              |
| MS1        | C02              | ADDR18     | F02              | ADDR8      | J02              | FLAG2       | M02              | IRQ2       | R02              |
| ADDR28     | C03              | ADDR20     | F03              | ADDR7      | J03              | TIMEXP      | M03              | RESET      | R03              |
| SBTS       | C04              | ADDR23     | F04              | ADDR4      | J04              | TDI         | M04              | ID1        | R04              |
| TCLK1      | C05              | GND        | F05              | GND        | J05              | LBOOT (GND) | M05              | NC         | R05              |
| RFS1       | C06              | GND        | F06              | V DD       | J06              | NC          | M06              | NC         | R06              |
| TFS0       | C07              | V DD       | F07              | V DD       | J07              | NC          | M07              | NC         | R07              |
| RFS0       | C08              | V DD       | F08              |            | J08              | NC          | M08              | NC         | R08              |
| WR         | C09              | V DD       | F09              | V DD V DD  | J09              | NC          | M09              | NC         | R09              |
| DMAG1      | C10              | GND        | F10              | V DD       | J10              | NC          | M10              | NC         | R10              |
| BR4        | C11              | GND        | F11              | GND        | J11              | NC          | M11              | NC         | R11              |
| DATA46     | C12              | DATA29     | F12              | DATA12     | J12              | NC          | M12              | NC         | R12              |

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

Table 32. ADSP-21061L 225-Lead Metric PBGA (B-225-2) Pin Assignments (Continued)

| Pin Name   | PBGA PinNumber   | Pin Name   | PBGA PinNumber   | Pin Name   | PBGA PinNumber   | Pin Name   | PBGA PinNumber   | Pin Name   | PBGA PinNumber   |
|------------|------------------|------------|------------------|------------|------------------|------------|------------------|------------|------------------|
| DATA41     | C13              | DATA26     | F13              | DATA15     | J13              | DATA2      | M13              | NC         | R13              |
| DATA38     | C14              | DATA28     | F14              | DATA16     | J14              | DATA5      | M14              | NC         | R14              |
| DATA36     | C15              | DATA27     | F15              | DATA17     | J15              | DATA6      | M15              | NC         | R15              |

| 15     | 14     | 13     | 12     | 11   | 10    | 9     | 8      | 7     | 6     | 5           | 4      | 3      | 2      | 1      |
|--------|--------|--------|--------|------|-------|-------|--------|-------|-------|-------------|--------|--------|--------|--------|
| DATA42 | DATA44 | DATA47 | BR3    | PAGE | CLKIN | CS    | ADRCLK | RCLK0 | TCLK0 | RCLK1       | DT1    | DMAR2  | ADDR30 | BMS    |
| DATA39 | DATA43 | DATA45 | BR2    | BR6  | ACK   | RD    | REDY   | DR0   | DT0   | DR1         | HBR    | ADDR31 | SW     | MS0    |
| DATA36 | DATA38 | DATA41 | DATA46 | BR4  | DMAG1 | WR    | RFS0   | TFS0  | RFS1  | TCLK1       | SBTS   | ADDR28 | MS1    | MS3    |
| DATA34 | DATA35 | DATA37 | DATA40 | BR1  | BR5   | DMAG2 | HBG    | CPA   | TFS1  | DMAR1       | ADDR29 | MS2    | ADDR26 | ADDR25 |
| DATA31 | DATA32 | DATA30 | DATA33 | NC   | GND   | GND   | GND    | GND   | GND   | GND         | ADDR27 | ADDR24 | ADDR22 | ADDR21 |
| DATA27 | DATA28 | DATA26 | DATA29 | GND  | GND   | V DD  | V DD   | V DD  | GND   | GND         | ADDR23 | ADDR20 | ADDR18 | ADDR17 |
| DATA23 | DATA24 | DATA25 | DATA22 | GND  | V DD  | V DD  | V DD   | V DD  | V DD  | GND         | ADDR19 | ADDR16 | ADDR15 | ADDR14 |
| DATA20 | DATA21 | DATA19 | DATA18 | GND  | V DD  | V DD  | V DD   | V DD  | V DD  | GND         | ADDR10 | ADDR13 | ADDR11 | ADDR12 |
| DATA17 | DATA16 | DATA15 | DATA12 | GND  | V DD  | V DD  | V DD   | V DD  | V DD  | GND         | ADDR4  | ADDR7  | ADDR8  | ADDR9  |
| DATA14 | DATA13 | DATA11 | DATA8  | GND  | GND   | V DD  | V DD   | V DD  | GND   | ICSA        | ADDR0  | ADDR3  | ADDR5  | ADDR6  |
| DATA10 | DATA9  | DATA7  | DATA4  | NC   | GND   | GND   | GND    | GND   | GND   | RPBA        | FLAG3  | FLAG0  | ADDR1  | ADDR2  |
| DATA6  | DATA5  | DATA2  | NC     | NC   | NC    | NC    | NC     | NC    | NC    | LBOOT (GND) | TDI    | TIMEXP | FLAG2  | FLAG1  |
| DATA3  | DATA1  | NC     | NC     | NC   | NC    | NC    | NC     | NC    | NC    | ID2         | IRQ1   | IRQ0   | TDO    | EMU    |
| DATA0  | NC     | NC     | NC     | NC   | NC    | NC    | NC     | NC    | NC    | NC          | ID0    | EBOOT  | TMS    | TRST   |
| NC     | NC     | NC     | NC     | NC   | NC    | NC    | NC     | NC    | NC    | NC          | ID1    | RESET  | IRQ2   | TCK    |

NC = NO CONNECT

Figure 38. BGA Pin Assignments (Top View, Summary)

## 240-LEAD MQFP PIN CONFIGURATIONS

Table 33. ADSP-21061 MQFP/ED (SP-240); ADSP-21061L MQFP (S-240) Pin Assignments

| PinName     | Pin No.   | PinName   | Pin No.   | PinName    | Pin No.   | PinName     | Pin No.   | PinName   | Pin No.   | PinName     | Pin No.   |
|-------------|-----------|-----------|-----------|------------|-----------|-------------|-----------|-----------|-----------|-------------|-----------|
| TDI         | 1         | ADDR20    | 41        | TCLK0      | 81        | DATA41      | 121       | DATA14    | 161       | NC          | 201       |
| TRST        | 2         | ADDR21    | 42        | TFS0       | 82        | DATA40      | 122       | DATA13    | 162       | NC          | 202       |
| V DD        | 3         | GND       | 43        | DR0        | 83        | DATA39      | 123       | DATA12    | 163       | NC          | 203       |
| TDO         | 4         | ADDR22    | 44        | RCLK0      | 84        | V DD        | 124       | GND       | 164       | NC          | 204       |
| TIMEXP      | 5         | ADDR23    | 45        | RFS0       | 85        | DATA38      | 125       | DATA11    | 165       | V DD        | 205       |
| EMU         | 6         | ADDR24    | 46        | V DD       | 86        | DATA37      | 126       | DATA10    | 166       | NC          | 206       |
| ICSA        | 7         | V DD      | 47        | V DD       | 87        | DATA36      | 127       | DATA9     | 167       | NC          | 207       |
| FLAG3       | 8         | GND       | 48        | GND        | 88        | GND         | 128       | V DD      | 168       | NC          | 208       |
| FLAG2       | 9         | V DD      | 49        | ADRCLK     | 89        | NC          | 129       | DATA8     | 169       | NC          | 209       |
| FLAG1       | 10        | ADDR25    | 50        | REDY       | 90        | DATA35      | 130       | DATA7     | 170       | NC          | 210       |
| FLAG0       | 11        | ADDR26    | 51        | HBG        | 91        | DATA34      | 131       | DATA6     | 171       | NC          | 211       |
| GND         | 12        | ADDR27    | 52        | CS         | 92        | DATA33      | 132       | GND       | 172       | GND         | 212       |
| ADDR0       | 13        | GND       | 53        | RD         | 93        | V DD        | 133       | DATA5     | 173       | NC          | 213       |
| ADDR1       | 14        | MS3       | 54        | WR         | 94        | V DD        | 134       | DATA4     | 174       | NC          | 214       |
| V DD        | 15        | MS2       | 55        | GND        | 95        | GND         | 135       | DATA3     | 175       | NC          | 215       |
| ADDR2       | 16        | MS1       | 56        | V DD       | 96        | DATA32      | 136       | V DD      | 176       | NC          | 216       |
| ADDR3       | 17        | MS0       | 57        | GND        | 97        | DATA31      | 137       | DATA2     | 177       | NC          | 217       |
| ADDR4       | 18        | SW        | 58        | CLKIN      | 98        | DATA30      | 138       | DATA1     | 178       | NC          | 218       |
| GND         | 19        | BMS       | 59        | ACK        | 99        | GND         | 139       | DATA0     | 179       | V DD        | 219       |
| ADDR5       | 20        | ADDR28    | 60        | DMAG2      | 100       | DATA29      | 140       | GND       | 180       | GND         | 220       |
| ADDR6       | 21        | GND       | 61        | DMAG1      | 101       | DATA28      | 141       | GND       | 181       | V DD        | 221       |
| ADDR7       | 22        | V DD      | 62        | PAGE       | 102       | DATA27      | 142       | NC        | 182       | NC          | 222       |
| V DD        | 23        | V DD      | 63        | V DD       | 103       | V DD        | 143       | NC        | 183       | NC          | 223       |
| ADDR8       | 24        | ADDR29    | 64        | BR6        | 104       | V DD        | 144       | NC        | 184       | NC          | 224       |
| ADDR9       | 25        | ADDR30    | 65        | BR5        | 105       | DATA26      | 145       | NC        | 185       | NC          | 225       |
| ADDR10      | 26        | ADDR31    | 66        | BR4        | 106       | DATA25      | 146       | NC        | 186       | NC          | 226       |
| GND         | 27        | GND       | 67        | BR3        | 107       | DATA24      | 147       | NC        | 187       | NC          | 227       |
| ADDR11      | 28        | SBTS      | 68        | BR2        | 108       | GND         | 148       | V DD      | 188       | GND         | 228       |
| ADDR12      | 29        | DMAR2     | 69        | BR1        | 109       | DATA23      | 149       | NC        | 189       | ID2         | 229       |
| ADDR13      | 30        | DMAR1     | 70        | GND        | 110       | DATA22      | 150       | NC        | 190       | ID1         | 230       |
| V DD        | 31        | HBR       | 71        | V DD       | 111       | DATA21      | 151       | NC        | 191       | ID0         | 231       |
| ADDR14      | 32        | DT1       | 72        | GND        | 112       | V DD        | 152       | NC        | 192       | LBOOT (GND) | 232       |
| ADDR15      | 33        | TCLK1     | 73        | DATA47     | 113       | DATA20      | 153       | NC        | 193       | RPBA        | 233       |
| GND         | 34        | TFS1      | 74        | DATA46     | 114       | DATA19      | 154       | NC        | 194       | RESET       | 234       |
| ADDR16      | 35        | DR1       | 75        | DATA45     | 115       | DATA18      | 155       | GND       | 195       | EBOOT       | 235       |
|             |           | RCLK1     |           | V DD       |           |             | 156       |           |           | IRQ2        |           |
| ADDR17      | 36        |           | 76        |            | 116       | GND         |           | GND       | 196       |             | 236       |
| ADDR18      | 37        | RFS1      | 77        | DATA44     | 117       | DATA17      | 157       | V DD      | 197 198   | IRQ1        | 237 238   |
| V DD        | 38        | GND       | 78        | DATA43     | 118 119   | DATA16      | 158 159   | NC NC     | 199       | IRQ0 TCK    | 239       |
| V DD ADDR19 | 39 40     | CPA DT0   | 79 80     | DATA42 GND | 120       | DATA15 V DD | 160       | NC        | 200       | TMS         | 240       |

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

## OUTLINE DIMENSIONS

Figure 39. 240-Lead Metric Quad Flat Package, Thermally Enhanced [MQFP/ED] (SP-240-2)

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

Figure 40. 240-Lead Metric Quad Flat Package, [MQFP] (S-240)

<!-- image -->

Figure 41. 225-Ball Plastic Ball Grid Array [PBGA] (B-225-2)

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21061/ADSP-21061L

## SURFACE-MOUNT DESIGN

Table 34 is provided as an aide to PCB design. For industry-standard design recommendations, refer to IPC-7351, Generic Requirements for Surface-Mount Design and Land Pattern Standard .

Table 34. BGA Data for Use with Surface-Mount Design

| Package                    | Ball Attach Type    | Solder Mask Opening   | Ball Pad Size   |
|----------------------------|---------------------|-----------------------|-----------------|
| 225-Ball Grid Array (PBGA) | Solder Mask Defined | 0.63 mmdiameter       | 0.73 mmdiameter |

## ORDERING GUIDE

| Model              | Notes   | Temperature Range   | Instruction Rate   | On-Chip SRAM   | Operating Voltage   | Package Description   | Package Option   |
|--------------------|---------|---------------------|--------------------|----------------|---------------------|-----------------------|------------------|
| ADSP-21061KS-133   |         | 0  C to 85  C     | 33 MHz             | 1MBit          | 5 V                 | 240-Lead MQFP_ED      | SP-240-2         |
| ADSP-21061KSZ-133  | 1       | 0  C to 85  C     | 33 MHz             | 1MBit          | 5 V                 | 240-Lead MQFP_ED      | SP-240-2         |
| ADSP-21061KS-160   |         | 0  C to 85  C     | 40 MHz             | 1MBit          | 5 V                 | 240-Lead MQFP_ED      | SP-240-2         |
| ADSP-21061KSZ-160  | 1       | 0  C to 85  C     | 40 MHz             | 1MBit          | 5 V                 | 240-Lead MQFP_ED      | SP-240-2         |
| ADSP-21061KS-200   |         | 0  C to 85  C     | 50 MHz             | 1MBit          | 5 V                 | 240-Lead MQFP_ED      | SP-240-2         |
| ADSP-21061KSZ-200  | 1       | 0  C to 85  C     | 50 MHz             | 1MBit          | 5 V                 | 240-Lead MQFP_ED      | SP-240-2         |
| ADSP-21061LKB-160  |         | 0  C to 85  C     | 40MHz              | 1MBit          | 3.3 V               | 225-Ball PBGA         | B-225-2          |
| ADSP-21061LKBZ-160 | 1       | 0  C to 85  C     | 40MHz              | 1MBit          | 3.3 V               | 225-Ball PBGA         | B-225-2          |
| ADSP-21061LKSZ-160 | 1       | 0  C to 85  C     | 40 MHz             | 1MBit          | 3.3 V               | 240-Lead MQFP         | S-240            |
| ADSP-21061LASZ-176 | 1       | -40  C to +85  C  | 44 MHz             | 1MBit          | 3.3 V               | 240-Lead MQFP         | S-240            |
| ADSP-21061LKSZ-176 | 1       | 0  C to 85  C     | 44 MHz             | 1MBit          | 3.3 V               | 240-Lead MQFP         | S-240            |

1 Z = RoHS Compliant Part.

<!-- image -->