<!-- lastmod 2025-09-05 -->
<!-- image -->

## SUMMARY

High Performance Signal Computer for Communications, Audio, Automotive, Instrumentation and Industrial Applications

Super Harvard Architecture Computer (SHARC ® )

Four Independent Buses for Dual Data, Instruction, and I/O Fetch on a Single Cycle

32-Bit Fixed-Point Arithmetic; 32-Bit and 40-Bit FloatingPoint Arithmetic

544 Kbits On-Chip SRAM Memory and Integrated I/O Peripheral

I 2 S Support, for Eight Simultaneous Receive and Transmit Channels

## KEY FEATURES

66 MIPS, 198 MFLOPS Peak, 132 MFLOPS Sustained Performance

User-Configurable 544 Kbits On-Chip SRAM Memory Two External Port, DMA Channels and Eight Serial Port, DMA Channels

## DSP Microcomputer

## ADSP-21065L

SDRAM Controller for Glueless Interface to Low Cost External Memory (@ 66 MHz)

64M Words External Address Range

12 Programmable I/O Pins and Two Timers with Event

Capture Options Code-Compatible with ADSP-2106x Family 208-Lead MQFP or 196-Ball Mini-BGA Package 3.3 Volt Operation

Flexible Data Formats and 40-Bit Extended Precision 32-Bit Single-Precision and 40-Bit Extended-Precision IEEE Floating-Point Data Formats

32-Bit Fixed-Point Data Format, Integer and Fractional, with Dual 80-Bit Accumulators

## Parallel Computations

Single-Cycle Multiply and ALU Operations in Parallel with Dual Memory Read/Writes and Instruction Fetch Multiply with Add and Subtract for Accelerated FFT Butterfly Computation

1024-Point Complex FFT Benchmark: 0.274 ms (18,221 Cycles)

Figure 1. Functional Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

One Technology Way, P.O. Box 9106, Norwood, MA 02062-9106, U.S.A. Tel: 781/329-4700 www.analog.com

Fax: 781/326-8703

© 2003 Analog Devices, Inc. All rights reserved.

SHARC is a registered trademark of Analog Devices, Inc.

REV. C

Information furnished by Analog Devices is believed to be accurate and reliable. However, no responsibility is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered  trademarks  are  the  property  of  their  respective  companies.

## ADSP-21065L

544 Kbits Configurable On-Chip SRAM

Dual-Ported for Independent Access by Core Processor and DMA

Configurable in Combinations of 16-, 32-, 48-Bit Data and Program Words in Block 0 and Block 1

## DMA Controller

Ten DMA Channels-Two Dedicated to the External Port and Eight Dedicated to the Serial Ports

Background DMA Transfers at up to 66 MHz, in Parallel with Full Speed Processor Execution

Performs Transfers Between:

Internal RAM and Host

Internal RAM and Serial Ports

Internal RAM and Master or Slave SHARC

Internal RAM and External Memory or I/O Devices

External Memory and External Devices

## Host Processor Interface

Efficient Interface to 8-, 16-, and 32-Bit Microprocessors Host Can Directly Read/Write ADSP-21065L IOP Registers

## Multiprocessing

Distributed On-Chip Bus Arbitration for Glueless, Parallel Bus Connect Between Two ADSP-21065Ls Plus Host 132 Mbytes/s Transfer Rate Over Parallel Bus

## Serial Ports

Independent Transmit and Receive Functions

Programmable 3-Bit to 32-Bit Serial Word Width

I 2 S Support Allowing Eight Transmit and Eight Receive Channels

Glueless Interface to Industry Standard Codecs

TDM Multichannel Mode with 𝛍 -Law/A-Law Hardware Companding

Multichannel Signaling Protocol

## GENERAL DESCRIPTION

The ADSP-21065L is a powerful member of the SHARC family of 32-bit processors optimized for cost sensitive applications. The SHARC-Super Harvard Architecture-offers the highest levels of performance and memory integration of any 32-bit DSP in the industry-they are also the only DSP in the industry that offer both fixed and floating-point capabilities, without compromising precision or performance.

The ADSP-21065L is fabricated in a high speed, low power CMOS process, 0.35 m m technology. With its on-chip instruction cache, the processor can execute every instruction in a single cycle. Table I lists the performance benchmarks for the ADSP-21065L.

The ADSP-21065L SHARC combines a floating-point DSP core with integrated, on-chip system features, including a 544 Kbit SRAM memory, host processor interface, DMA controller, SDRAM controller, and enhanced serial ports.

Figure 1 shows a block diagram of the ADSP-21065L, illustrating the following architectural features:

Computation Units (ALU, Multiplier, and Shifter) with a Shared Data Register File

Data Address Generators (DAG1, DAG2) Program Sequencer with Instruction Cache Timers with Event Capture Modes On-Chip, dual-ported SRAM External Port for Interfacing to Off-Chip Memory and Peripherals Host Port and SDRAM Interface DMA Controller Enhanced Serial Ports JTAG Test Access Port

Table I.  Performance Benchmarks

| Benchmark                                          | Timing          | Cycles   |
|----------------------------------------------------|-----------------|----------|
| Cycle Time                                         | 15.00 ns        | 1        |
| 1024-Pt. Complex FFT (Radix 4, with Digit Reverse) | 0.274 ns        | 18221    |
| Matrix Multiply (Pipelined) [3 ¥ 3] ¥ [3 ¥ 1]      | 135 ns          | 9        |
| [4 ¥ 4] ¥ [4 ¥ 1]                                  | 240 ns          | 16       |
| FIR Filter (per Tap)                               | 15 ns           | 1        |
| IIR Filter (per Biquad)                            | 60 ns           | 4        |
| Divide Y/X                                         | 90 ns           | 6        |
| Inverse Square Root (1/ ÷ x )                      | 135 ns          | 9        |
| DMA Transfers                                      | 264 Mbytes/sec. |          |

## ADSP-21000 FAMILY CORE ARCHITECTURE

The ADSP-21065L is code and function compatible with the ADSP-21060/ADSP-21061/ADSP-21062. The ADSP-21065L includes the following architectural features of the SHARC family core.

## ADSP-21065L

Figure 2. ADSP-21065L Single-Processor System

<!-- image -->

## Independent, Parallel Computation Units

The arithmetic/logic unit (ALU), multiplier, and shifter all perform single-cycle instructions. The three units are arranged in parallel, maximizing computational throughput. Single multifunction instructions execute parallel ALU and multiplier operations. These computation units support IEEE 32-bit single-precision floating-point, extended precision 40-bit floatingpoint, and 32-bit fixed-point data formats.

## Data Register File

A general-purpose data register file is used for transferring data between the computation units and the data buses, and for storing intermediate results. This 10-port, 32-register (16 primary, 16 secondary) register file, combined with the ADSP-21000 Harvard architecture, allows unconstrained data flow between computation units and internal memory.

## Single-Cycle Fetch of Instruction and Two Operands

The ADSP-21065L features an enhanced Super Harvard Architecture in which the data memory (DM) bus transfers data and the program memory (PM) bus transfers both instructions and data (see Figure 1). With its separate program and data memory buses, and on-chip instruction cache, the processor can simultaneously fetch two operands and an instruction (from the cache), all in a single cycle.

## Instruction Cache

The ADSP-21065L includes an on-chip instruction cache that enables three-bus operation for fetching an instruction and two data values. The cache is selective-only the instructions that fetches conflict with PM bus data accesses are cached. This allows full-speed execution of core, looped operations such as digital filter multiply-accumulates and FFT butterfly processing.

Data Address Generators with Hardware Circular Buffers The ADSP-21065L's two data address generators (DAGs) implement circular data buffers in hardware. Circular buffers allow efficient programming of delay lines and other data

## ADSP-21065L

structures required in digital signal processing, and are commonly used in digital filters and Fourier transforms. The ADSP-21065L's two DAGs contain sufficient registers to allow the creation of up to 32 circular buffers (16 primary register sets, 16 secondary). The DAGs automatically handle address pointer wraparound, reducing overhead, increasing performance, and simplifying implementation. Circular buffers can start and end at any memory location.

## Flexible Instruction Set

The 48-bit instruction word accommodates a variety of parallel operations, for concise programming. For example, the ADSP21065L can conditionally execute a multiply, an add, a subtract and a branch, all in a single instruction.

## ADSP-21065L FEATURES

The ADSP-21065L is designed to achieve the highest system throughput to enable maximum system performance. It can be clocked by either a crystal or a TTL-compatible clock signal. The ADSP-21065L uses an input clock with a frequency equal to half the instruction rate-a 33 MHz input clock yields a 15 ns processor cycle (which is equivalent to 66 MHz). Interfaces on the ADSP-21065L operate as shown below. Hereafter in this document, 1x = input clock frequency, and 2x = processor's instruction rate.

The following clock operation ratings are based on 1x = 33 MHz (instruction rate/core = 66 MHz):

| SDRAM               | 66 MHz   |
|---------------------|----------|
| External SRAM       | 33 MHz   |
| Serial Ports        | 33 MHz   |
| Multiprocessing     | 33 MHz   |
| Host (Asynchronous) | 33 MHz   |

Augmenting the ADSP-21000 family core, the ADSP-21065L adds the following architectural features:

## Dual-Ported On-Chip Memory

The ADSP-21065L contains 544 Kbits of on-chip SRAM, organized into two banks: Bank 0 has 288 Kbits, and Bank 1 has 256 Kbits. Bank 0 is configured with 9 columns of 2K ¥ 16 bits, and Bank 1 is configured with 8 columns of 2K ¥ 16 bits. Each memory block is dual-ported for single-cycle, independent accesses by the core processor and I/O processor or DMA controller. The dual-ported memory and separate on-chip buses allow two data transfers from the core and one from I/O, all in a single cycle (see Figure 4 for the ADSP-21065L Memory Map).

On the ADSP-21065L, the memory can be configured as a maximum of 16K words of 32-bit data, 34K words for 16-bit data, 10K words of 48-bit instructions (and 40-bit data) or combinations of different word sizes up to 544 Kbits. All the memory can be accessed as 16-bit, 32-bit or 48-bit.

While each memory block can store combinations of code and data, accesses are most efficient when one block stores data, using the DM bus for transfers, and the other block stores instructions and data, using the PM bus for transfers. Using the DM and PM busses in this way, with one dedicated to each memory block, assures single-cycle execution with two data transfers. In this case, the instruction must be available in the cache. Single-cycle execution is also maintained when one of the data operands is transferred to or from off-chip, via the ADSP-21065L's external port.

## Off-Chip Memory and Peripherals Interface

The ADSP-21065L's external port provides the processor's interface to off-chip memory and peripherals. The 64M words, off-chip address space is included in the ADSP-21065L's unified address space. The separate on-chip buses-for program memory, data memory and I/O-are multiplexed at the external port to create an external system bus with a single 24-bit address bus, four memory selects, and a single 32-bit data bus. The on-chip Super Harvard Architecture provides three bus performance, while the off-chip unified address space gives flexibility to the designer.

## SDRAM Interface

The SDRAM interface enables the ADSP-21065L to transfer data to and from synchronous DRAM (SDRAM) at 2x clock frequency. The synchronous approach coupled with 2x clock frequency supports data transfer at a high throughput-up to 220 Mbytes/sec.

The SDRAM interface provides a glueless interface with standard SDRAMs-16 Mb, 64 Mb, and 128 Mb-and includes options to support additional buffers between the ADSP-21065L and SDRAM. The SDRAM interface is extremely flexible and provides capability for connecting SDRAMs to any one of the ADSP-21065L's four external memory banks.

Systems with several SDRAM devices connected in parallel may require buffering to meet overall system timing requirements. The ADSP-21065L supports pipelining of the address and control signals to enable such buffering between itself and multiple SDRAM devices.

## Host Processor Interface

The ADSP-21065L's host interface provides easy connection to standard microprocessor buses-8-, 16-, and 32-bit-requiring little additional hardware. Supporting asynchronous transfers at speeds up to 1x clock frequency, the host interface is accessed through the ADSP-21065L's external port. Two channels of DMA are available for the host interface; code and data transfers are accomplished with low software overhead.

The host processor requests the ADSP-21065L's external bus with the host bus request ( HBR ), host bus grant ( HBG ), and ready (REDY) signals. The host can directly read and write the IOP registers of the ADSP-21065L and can access the DMA channel setup and mailbox registers. Vector interrupt support enables efficient execution of host commands.

## DMA Controller

The ADSP-21065L's on-chip DMA controller allows zerooverhead, nonintrusive data transfers without processor intervention. The DMA controller operates independently and invisibly to the processor core, allowing DMA operations to occur while the core is simultaneously executing its program instructions.

DMA transfers can occur between the ADSP-21065L's internal memory and either external memory, external peripherals, or a host processor. DMA transfers can also occur between the ADSP-21065L's internal memory and its serial ports. DMA transfers between external memory and external peripheral devices are another option. External bus packing to 16-, 32-, or 48-bit internal words is performed during DMA transfers.

Ten channels of DMA are available on the ADSP-21065Leight via the serial ports, and two via the processor's external port (for either host processor, other ADSP-21065L, memory or

I/O transfers). Programs can be downloaded to the ADSP-21065L using DMA transfers. Asynchronous off-chip peripherals can control two DMA channels using DMA Request/Grant lines ( DMAR 1-2, DMAG 1-2). Other DMA features include interrupt generation on completion of DMA transfers and DMA chaining for automatically linked DMA transfers.

## Serial Ports

The ADSP-21065L features two synchronous serial ports that provide an inexpensive interface to a wide variety of digital and mixed-signal peripheral devices. The serial ports can operate at 1x clock frequency, providing each with a maximum data rate of 33 Mbit/s. Each serial port has a primary and a secondary set of transmit and receive channels. Independent transmit and receive functions provide greater flexibility for serial communications. Serial port data can be automatically transferred to and from on-chip memory via DMA. Each of the serial ports supports three operation modes: DSP serial port mode, I 2 S mode (an interface commonly used by audio codecs), and TDM (Time Division Multiplex) multichannel mode.

The serial ports can operate with little-endian or big-endian transmission formats, with selectable word lengths of 3 bits to 32 bits. They offer selectable synchronization and transmit modes and optional m -law or A-law companding. Serial port clocks and frame syncs can be internally or externally generated. The serial ports also include keyword and keymask features to enhance interprocessor communication.

## Programmable Timers and General-Purpose I/O Ports

The ADSP-21065L has two independent timer blocks, each of which performs two functions-Pulsewidth Generation and Pulse Count and Capture.

In Pulsewidth Generation mode, the ADSP-21065L can generate a modulated waveform with an arbitrary pulsewidth within a maximum period of 71.5 secs.

In Pulse Counter mode, the ADSP-21065L can measure either the high or low pulsewidth and the period of an input waveform.

The ADSP-21065L also contains twelve programmable, general purpose I/O pins that can function as either input or output. As output, these pins can signal peripheral devices; as input, these pins can provide the test for conditional branching.

## Program Booting

The internal memory of the ADSP-21065L can be booted at system power-up from an 8-bit EPROM, a host processor, or external memory. Selection of the boot source is controlled by the BMS (Boot Memory Select) and BSEL (EPROM Boot) pins. Either 8-, 16-, or 32-bit host processors can be used for booting. For details, see the descriptions of the BMS and BSEL pins in the Pin Descriptions section of this data sheet.

## Multiprocessing

The ADSP-21065L offers powerful features tailored to multiprocessing DSP systems. The unified address space allows direct interprocessor accesses of both ADSP-21065L's IOP registers. Distributed bus arbitration logic is included on-chip for simple, glueless connection of systems containing a maximum of two ADSP-21065Ls and a host processor. Master processor changeover incurs only one cycle of overhead. Bus lock allows indivisible read-modify-write sequences for semaphores. A vector interrupt is provided for interprocessor commands. Maximum throughput for interprocessor data transfer is 132 Mbytes/sec over the external port.

## DEVELOPMENT TOOLS

The ADSP-21065L is supported with a complete set of software and hardware development tools, including the EZ-ICE ® InCircuit Emulator and development software.

The same EZ-ICE hardware that you use for the ADSP-21060/ ADSP-21062 also fully emulates the ADSP-21065L.

Both the SHARC Development Tools family and the VisualDSP ® integrated project management and debugging environment support the ADSP-21065L. The VisualDSP project management environment enables you to develop and debug an application from within a single integrated program.

The SHARC Development Tools include an easy to use Assembler that is based on an algebraic syntax; an Assembly library/ librarian; a linker; a loader; a cycle-accurate, instruction-level simulator; a C compiler; and a C run-time library that includes DSP and mathematical functions.

Debugging both C and Assembly programs with the Visual DSP debugger, you can:

- View Mixed C and Assembly Code
- Insert Break Points
- Set Watch Points
- Trace Bus Activity
- Profile Program Execution
- Fill and Dump Memory
- Create Custom Debugger Windows

The Visual IDE enables you to define and manage multiuser projects. Its dialog boxes and property pages enable you to configure and manage all of the SHARC Development Tools. This capability enables you to:

- Control how the development tools process inputs and generate outputs.
- Maintain a one-to-one correspondence with the tool's command line switches.

The EZ-ICE Emulator uses the IEEE 1149.1 JTAG test access port of the ADSP-21065L processor to monitor and control the target board processor during emulation. The EZ-ICE provides full-speed emulation, allowing inspection and modification of memory, registers, and processor stacks. Nonintrusive in-circuit emulation is assured by the use of the processor's JTAG interface-the emulator does not affect target system loading or timing.

In addition to the software and hardware development tools available from Analog Devices, third parties provide a wide range of tools supporting the SHARC processor family. Hardware tools include SHARC PC plug-in cards multiprocessor SHARC VME boards, and daughter and modules with multiple SHARCs and additional memory. These modules are based on the SHARCPAC™ module specification. Third Party software tools include an Ada compiler, DSP libraries, operating systems, and block diagram design tools.

## Additional Information

For detailed information on the ADSP-21065L instruction set and architecture, see the ADSP-21065L SHARC User's Manual , Third Edition, and the ADSP-21065L SHARC Technical Reference.

EZ-ICE and VisualDSP are registered trademarks of Analog Devices, Inc. SHARCPAC is a trademark of Analog Devices, Inc.

## ADSP-21065L

## ADSP-21065L

Figure 3. Multiprocessing System

<!-- image -->

## PIN DESCRIPTIONS

ADSP-21065L pin definitions are listed below. Inputs identified as synchronous (S) must meet timing requirements with respect to CLKIN (or with respect to TCK for TMS, TDI). Inputs identified as asynchronous (A) can be asserted asynchronously to CLKIN (or to TCK for TRST ).

Unused inputs should be tied or pulled to VDD or GND, except for ADDR23-0, DATA31-0, FLAG11-0, SW , and inputs that have internal pull-up or pull-down resistors ( CPA , ACK, DTxX, DRxX, TCLKx, RCLKx, TMS, and TDI)-these pins can be left floating. These pins have a logic-level hold circuit that prevents the input from floating internally.

| I = Input                                                                      | S = Synchronous                                                                | P = Power Supply                                                               | (O/D) = Open Drain                                                             |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| O = Output                                                                     | A = Asynchronous                                                               | G = Ground                                                                     | (A/D) = Active Drive                                                           |
| T = Three-state (when SBTS is asserted, or when the ADSP-2106x is a bus slave) | T = Three-state (when SBTS is asserted, or when the ADSP-2106x is a bus slave) | T = Three-state (when SBTS is asserted, or when the ADSP-2106x is a bus slave) | T = Three-state (when SBTS is asserted, or when the ADSP-2106x is a bus slave) |

| Pin       | Type   | Function                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
|-----------|--------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ADDR 23-0 | I/O/T  | External Bus Address . The ADSP-21065L outputs addresses for external memory and peripherals on these pins. In a multiprocessor system the bus master outputs addresses for read/ writes of the IOP registers of the other ADSP-21065L. The ADSP-21065L inputs addresses when a host processor or multiprocessing bus master is reading or writing its IOP registers.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| DATA 31-0 | I/O/T  | External Bus Data . The ADSP-21065L inputs and outputs data and instructions on these pins. The external data bus transfers 32-bit single-precision floating-point data and 32-bit fixed- point data over bits 31-0. 16-bit short word data is transferred over bits 15-0 of the bus. Pull-up resistors on unused DATA pins are not necessary.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| MS 3-0    | I/O/T  | Memory Select Lines . These lines are asserted as chip selects for the corresponding banks of external memory. Internal ADDR 25-24 are decoded into MS 3-0 . The MS 3-0 lines are decoded memory address lines that change at the same time as the other address lines. When no external memory access is occurring the MS 3-0 lines are inactive; they are active, however, when a condi- tional memory access instruction is executed, whether or not the condition is true. Additionally, an MS 3-0 line which is mapped to SDRAM may be asserted even when no SDRAM access is active. In a multiprocessor system, the MS lines are output by the bus master. |
| RD        | I/O/T  | Memory Read Strobe . This pin is asserted when the ADSP-21065L reads from external memory devices or from the IOP register of another ADSP-21065L. External devices (including another ADSP-21065L) must assert RD to read from the ADSP-21065L's IOP registers. In a multipro- cessor system, RD is output by the bus master and is input by another ADSP-21065L.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| WR        | I/O/T  | Memory Write Strobe. This pin is asserted when the ADSP-21065L writes to external memory devices or to the IOP register of another ADSP-21065L. External devices must assert WR to write to the ADSP-21065L's IOP registers. In a multiprocessor system, WR is output by the bus master and is input by the other ADSP-21065L.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| SW        | I/O/T  | Synchronous Write Select. This signal interfaces the ADSP-21065L to synchronous memory devices (including another ADSP-21065L). The ADSP-21065L asserts SW to provide an early indication of an impending write cycle, which can be aborted if WR is not later asserted (e.g., in a conditional write instruction). In a multiprocessor system, SW is output by the bus master and is input by the other ADSP-21065L to determine if the multiprocessor access is a read or write. SW is asserted at the same time as the address output.                                                                                                                        |
| ACK       | I/O/S  | Memory Acknowledge . External devices can deassert ACK to add wait states to an external memory access. ACK is used by I/O devices, memory controllers, or other peripherals to hold off completion of an external memory access. The ADSP-21065L deasserts ACK as an output to add wait states to a synchronous access of its IOP registers. In a multiprocessor system, a slave ADSP-21065L deasserts the bus master's ACK input to add wait state(s) to an access of its IOP registers. The bus master has a keeper latch on its ACK pin that maintains the input at the level to which it was last driven.                                                   |
| SBTS      | I/S    | Suspend Bus Three-State. External devices can assert SBTS to place the external bus address, data, selects, and strobes-but not SDRAM control pins-in a high impedance state for the following cycle. If the ADSP-21065L attempts to access external memory while SBTS is as- serted, the processor will halt and the memory access will not finish until SBTS is deasserted. SBTS should only be used to recover from host processor/ADSP-21065L deadlock.                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| IRQ 2-0   | I/A    | Interrupt Request Lines. May be either edge-triggered or level-sensitive.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| FLAG 11-0 | I/O/A  | Flag Pins. Each is configured via control bits as either an input or an output. As an input, it can be tested as a condition. As an output, it can be used to signal external peripherals.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

## ADSP-21065L

## ADSP-21065L

| Pin        | Type   | Function                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|------------|--------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| HBR        | I/A    | Host Bus Request. Must be asserted by a host processor to request control of the ADSP- 21065L's external bus. When HBR is asserted in a multiprocessing system, the ADSP-21065L that is bus master will relinquish the bus and assert HBG . To relinquish the bus, the ADSP- 21065L places the address, data, select, and strobe lines in a high impedance state. It does, however, continue to drive the SDRAM control pins. HBR has priority over all ADSP-21065L bus requests ( BR 2-1 ) in a multiprocessor system. |
| HBG        | I/O    | Host Bus Grant . Acknowledges an HBR bus request, indicating that the host processor may take control of the external bus. HBG is asserted by the ADSP-21065L until HBR is released. In a multiprocessor system, HBG is output by the ADSP-21065L bus master.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| CS         | I/A    | Chip Select. Asserted by host processor to select the ADSP-21065L.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| REDY (O/D) | O      | Host Bus Acknowledge. The ADSP-21065L deasserts REDY to add wait states to an asyn- chronous access of its internal memory or IOP registers by a host. Open drain output (O/D) by default; can be programmed in ADREDY bit of SYSCON register to be active drive (A/D). REDY will only be output if the CS and HBR inputs are asserted.                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| DMAR 1     | I/A    | DMA Request 1 (DMA Channel 9).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| DMAR 2     | I/A    | DMA Request 2 (DMA Channel 8).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| DMAG 1     | O/T    | DMA Grant 1 (DMA Channel 9).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| DMAG 2     | O/T    | DMA Grant 2 (DMA Channel 8).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| BR 2-1     | I/O/S  | Multiprocessing Bus Requests. Used by multiprocessing ADSP-21065Ls to arbitrate for bus mastership. An ADSP-21065L drives its own BR x line (corresponding to the value of its ID 2-0 inputs) only and monitors all others. In a uniprocessor system, tie both BR x pins to VDD.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ID 1-0     | I      | Multiprocessing ID. Determines which multiprocessor bus request ( BR 1 - BR 2 ) is used by ADSP-21065L. ID = 01 corresponds to BR 1 , ID = 10 corresponds to BR 2 . ID = 00 in single- processor systems. These lines are a system configuration selection which should be hard-wired or changed only at reset.                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| CPA (O/D)  | I/O    | Core Priority Access. Asserting its CPA pin allows the core processor of an ADSP-21065L bus slave to interrupt background DMA transfers and gain access to the external bus. CPA is an open drain output that is connected to both ADSP-21065Ls in the system. The CPA pin has an internal 5 k W pull-up resistor. If core access priority is not required in a system, leave the CPA pin unconnected.                                                                                                                  |
| DTxX       | O      | Data Transmit (Serial Ports 0, 1; Channels A, B). Each DTxX pin has a 50 k W internal pull- up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| DRxX       | I      | Data Receive (Serial Ports 0, 1; Channels A, B). Each DRxX pin has a 50 k W internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| TCLKx      | I/O    | Transmit Clock (Serial Ports 0, 1). Each TCLK pin has a 50 k W internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| RCLKx      | I/O    | Receive Clock (Serial Ports 0, 1). Each RCLK pin has a 50 k W internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| TFSx       | I/O    | Transmit Frame Sync (Serial Ports 0, 1).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| RFSx       | I/O    | Receive Frame Sync (Serial Ports 0, 1).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| BSEL       | I      | EPROM Boot Select. When BSEL is high, the ADSP-21065L is configured for booting from an 8-bit EPROM. When BSEL is low, the BSEL and BMS inputs determine booting mode. See BMS for details. This signal is a system configuration selection which should be hardwired.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

## ADSP-21065L

| Pin       | Type    | Function                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Function                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|-----------|---------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| BMS       | I/O/T * | Boot Memory Select. Output: used as chip select for boot EPROM devices (when BSEL = 1). In a multiprocessor system, BMS is output by the bus master. Input: When low, indicates that no booting will occur and that the ADSP-21065L will begin executing instructions from exter- nal memory. See following table. This input is a system configuration selection which should be hardwired. | Boot Memory Select. Output: used as chip select for boot EPROM devices (when BSEL = 1). In a multiprocessor system, BMS is output by the bus master. Input: When low, indicates that no booting will occur and that the ADSP-21065L will begin executing instructions from exter- nal memory. See following table. This input is a system configuration selection which should be hardwired. |
|           |         | * Three-statable only in EPROM boot mode (when BMS is an output).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | * Three-statable only in EPROM boot mode (when BMS is an output).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|           |         | BSEL 1 0 0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | BMS Booting Mode Output EPROM (connect BMS to EPROM chip select). 1 (Input) Host processor (HBW [SYSCON] bit selects host bus width). 0 (Input) No booting. Processor executes from external memory.                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| CLKIN     | I       | Clock In. Used in conjunction with XTAL, configures the ADSP-21065L to use either its internal clock generator or an external clock source. The external crystal should be rated at 1x frequency.                                                                                                                                                                                            | Clock In. Used in conjunction with XTAL, configures the ADSP-21065L to use either its internal clock generator or an external clock source. The external crystal should be rated at 1x frequency.                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| RESET     | I/A     | Processor Reset. Resets the ADSP-21065L to a known state and begins execution at the program memory location specified by the hardware reset vector address. This input must be                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Processor Reset. Resets the ADSP-21065L to a known state and begins execution at the program memory location specified by the hardware reset vector address. This input must be                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| TCK       | I       | Test Clock (JTAG). Provides an asynchronous clock for JTAG boundary scan.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Test Clock (JTAG). Provides an asynchronous clock for JTAG boundary scan.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| TMS       | I/S     | Test Mode Select (JTAG). Used to control the test state machine. TMS has a 20 k W internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Test Mode Select (JTAG). Used to control the test state machine. TMS has a 20 k W internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| TDI       | I/S     | Test Data Input (JTAG). Provides serial data for the boundary scan logic. TDI has a 20 k W internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Test Data Input (JTAG). Provides serial data for the boundary scan logic. TDI has a 20 k W internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| TDO       | O       | Test Data Output (JTAG). Serial scan output of the boundary scan path.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Test Data Output (JTAG). Serial scan output of the boundary scan path.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| TRST      | I/A     | Test Reset (JTAG). Resets the test state machine. TRST must be asserted (pulsed low) after power-up or held low for proper operation of the ADSP-21065L. TRST has a 20 k W internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                        | Test Reset (JTAG). Resets the test state machine. TRST must be asserted (pulsed low) after power-up or held low for proper operation of the ADSP-21065L. TRST has a 20 k W internal pull-up resistor.                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| EMU (O/D) | O       | Emulation Status. Must be connected to the ADSP-21065L EZ-ICE target board connector                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Emulation Status. Must be connected to the ADSP-21065L EZ-ICE target board connector                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| BMSTR     | O       | Bus Master Output. In a multiprocessor system, indicates whether the ADSP-21065L is cur- rent bus master of the shared external bus. The ADSP-21065L drives BMSTR high only while                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Bus Master Output. In a multiprocessor system, indicates whether the ADSP-21065L is cur- rent bus master of the shared external bus. The ADSP-21065L drives BMSTR high only while                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| CAS       | I/O/T   | SDRAM Column Access Strobe. Provides the column address. In conjunction with RAS , MS x, SDWE , SDCLKx, and sometimes SDA10, defines the operation for the SDRAM to perform.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | SDRAM Column Access Strobe. Provides the column address. In conjunction with RAS , MS x, SDWE , SDCLKx, and sometimes SDA10, defines the operation for the SDRAM to perform.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| RAS       | I/O/T   | SDRAM Row Access Strobe. Provides the row address. In conjunction with CAS , MS x, SDWE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | SDRAM Row Access Strobe. Provides the row address. In conjunction with CAS , MS x, SDWE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| SDWE      | I/O/T   | SDRAM Write Enable. In conjunction with CAS , RAS , MS x, SDCLKx, and sometimes SDA10, defines the operation for the SDRAM to perform.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | SDRAM Write Enable. In conjunction with CAS , RAS , MS x, SDCLKx, and sometimes SDA10, defines the operation for the SDRAM to perform.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| DQM       | O/T     | SDRAM Data Mask. In write mode, DQM has a latency of zero and is used to block write operations.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | SDRAM Data Mask. In write mode, DQM has a latency of zero and is used to block write operations.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| SDCLK 1-0 | I/O/S/T | SDRAM 2x Clock Output. In systems with multiple SDRAM devices connected in parallel, supports the corresponding increased clock load requirements, eliminating need of off-chip                                                                                                                                                                                                              | SDRAM 2x Clock Output. In systems with multiple SDRAM devices connected in parallel, supports the corresponding increased clock load requirements, eliminating need of off-chip                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| SDCKE     | I/O/T   | SDRAM Clock Enable. Enables and disables the CLK signal. For details, see the data sheet supplied with your SDRAM device.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | SDRAM Clock Enable. Enables and disables the CLK signal. For details, see the data sheet supplied with your SDRAM device.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

## ADSP-21065L

| Pin           | Type   | Function                                                                                                                                                                       |
|---------------|--------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| SDA10         | O/T    | SDRAM A10 Pin. Enables applications to refresh an SDRAM in parallel with a host access.                                                                                        |
| XTAL          | O      | Crystal Oscillator Terminal. Used in conjunction with CLKIN to enable the ADSP-21065L's internal clock generator or to disable it to use an external clock source. See CLKIN.  |
| PWM_EVENT 1-0 | I/O/A  | PWMOutput/Event Capture. In PWMOUT mode, is an output pin and functions as a timer counter. In WIDTH_CNT mode, is an input pin and functions as a pulse counter/event capture. |
| VDD           | P      | Power Supply; nominally +3.3 V dc. (33 pins)                                                                                                                                   |
| GND           | G      | Power Supply Return . (37 pins)                                                                                                                                                |
| NC            |        | Do Not Connect. Reserved pins that must be left open and unconnected. (7 pins)                                                                                                 |

## CLOCK SIGNALS

The ADSP-21065L can use an external clock or a crystal. See CLKIN pin description. You can configure the ADSP-21065L to use its internal clock generator by connecting the necessary components to CLKIN and XTAL. You can use either a crystal operating in the fundamental mode or a crystal operating at an overtone. Figure 4 shows the component connections used for a crystal operating in fundamental mode, and Figure 5 shows the component connections used for a crystal operating at an overtone.

<!-- image -->

SUGGESTED COMPONENTS FOR 30 MHz OPERATION: ECLIPTEK EC2SM-33-30.000M (SURFACE MOUNT PACKAGE) ECLIPTEK EC-33-30.000M (THROUGH-HOLE PACKAGE) C1 = 33pF

C2 = 27pF NOTE: C1 AND C2 ARE SPECIFIC TO CRYSTAL SPECIFIED FOR X1. CONTACT CRYSTAL MANUFACTURER FOR DETAILS.

Figure 4. 30 MHz Operation (Fundamental Mode Crystal)

<!-- image -->

Figure 5. 30 MHz Operation (3rd Overtone Crystal)

## TARGET BOARD CONNECTOR FOR EZ-ICE PROBE

The ADSP-2106x EZ-ICE emulator uses the IEEE 1149.1 JTAG test access port of the ADSP-2106x to monitor and control the target board processor during emulation. The EZ-ICE probe requires the ADSP-2106x's CLKIN, TMS, TCK, TRST , TDI, TDO, EMU and GND signals be made accessible on the target system via a 14-pin connector (a 2 row x 7 pin strip header) such as that shown in Figure 6. The EZ-ICE probe plugs directly onto this connector for chip-on-board emulation. You must add this connector to your target board design if you, intend to use the ADSP-2106x EZ-ICE.

The total trace length between the EZ-ICE connector and the furthest device sharing the EZ-ICE JTAG pins should be limited to 15 inches maximum for guaranteed operation. This restriction on length must include EZ-ICE JTAG signals, which are routed to one or more 2106x devices or to a combination of 2106xs and other JTAG devices on the chain.

The 14-pin, 2-row pin strip header is keyed at the Pin 3 location-you must remove Pin 3 from the header. The pins must be 0.025 inch square and at least 0.20 inch in length. Pin spacing should be 0.1 ¥ 0.1 inches. Pin strip headers are available from vendors such as 3M, McKenzie and Samtec.

Figure 6. Target Board Connector for ADSP-2106x EZ-ICE (JTAG Header)

<!-- image -->

The BTMS, BTCK, BTRST and BTDI signals are provided so that the test access port can also be used for board-level testing. When the connector is not being used for emulation, place jumpers between the Bxxx pins and the xxx pins. If you are not going to use the test access port for board testing, tie BTRST to GND and tie or pull-up BTCK to VDD. The TRST pin must be asserted after power-up (through BTRST on the connector) or held low for proper operation of the ADSP-2106x. None of the Bxxx pins (Pins 5, 7, 9, 11) are connected on the EZ-ICE probe.

The JTAG signals are terminated on the EZ-ICE probe as follows:

| Signal   | Termination                                                                                                        |
|----------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| TMS      | Driven through 22 W resistor (16 mA driver)                                                                        |
| TCK      | Driven at 10 MHz through 22 W resistor (16 mA driver)                                                              |
| TRST *   | Driven through 22 W resistor (16 mA driver) (pulled up by on-chip 20 k W resistor)                                 |
| TDI      | Driven by 22 W resistor (16 mA driver)                                                                             |
| TDO      | One TTL load, Split Termination (160/220)                                                                          |
| CLKIN    | One TTL load, Split Termination (160/220). (Caution: Do not connect to CLKIN if internal XTAL oscillator is used.) |
| EMU      | Active Low 4.7 k W pull-up resistor, one TTL load (open-drain output from ADSP-2106xs)                             |

* TRST is driven low until the EZ-ICE probe is turned on by the emulator at software start-up. After software start-up, TRST is driven high.

## ADSP-21065L

Connecting CLKIN to Pin 4 of the EZ-ICE header is optional. The emulator only uses CLKIN when directed to perform operations such as starting, stopping, and single-stepping two ADSP-21065Ls in a synchronous manner. If you do not need these operations to occur synchronously on the two processors, simply tie Pin 4 of the EZ-ICE header to ground.

For systems which use the internal clock generator and an external discrete crystal, do not directly connect the CLKIN pin to the JTAG probe. This will load the oscillator circuit and possibly cause it to fail to oscillate. Instead the JTAG probe's CLKIN can be driven by the XTAL pin through a high impedance buffer.

If synchronous multiprocessor operations are needed and CLKIN is connected, clock skew between multiple ADSP-2106x processors and the CLKIN pin on the EZ-ICE header must be minimal. If the skew is too large, synchronous operations may be off by one cycle between processors. For synchronous multiprocessor operation TCK, TMS, CLKIN and EMU should be treated as critical signals in terms of skew, and should be laid out as short as possible on your board.

If synchronous multiprocessor operations are not needed (i.e., CLKIN is not connected), just use appropriate parallel termination on TCK and TMS. TDI, TDO, EMU and TRST are not critical signals in terms of skew.

For complete information on the SHARC EZ-ICE, see the ADSP-21000 Family J TAG EZ-ICE User's Guide and Reference .

## ADSP-21065L-SPECIFICATIONS RECOMMENDED OPERATING CONDITIONS

|           |                            | Test        | C Grade   | C Grade    | K Grade   | K Grade    |      |
|-----------|----------------------------|-------------|-----------|------------|-----------|------------|------|
| Parameter |                            | Conditions  | Min       | Max        | Min       | Max        | Unit |
| V DD      | Supply Voltage             |             | 3.13      | 3.60       | 3.13      | 3.60       | V    |
| T CASE    | Case Operating Temperature |             | -40       | +100       | 0         | +85        | ∞ C  |
| V IH      | High Level Input Voltage   | @V DD = max | 2.0       | V DD + 0.5 | 2.0       | V DD + 0.5 | V    |
| V IL1     | Low Level Input Voltage 1  | @V DD = min | -0.5      | 0.8        | -0.5      | 0.8        | V    |
| V IL2     | Low Level Input Voltage 2  | @V DD = min | -0.5      | 0.7        | -0.5      | 0.7        | V    |

## NOTE

See Environmental Conditions for information on thermal specifications.

## ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS

|                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | C and K Grades   | C and K Grades                     |                                          |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------|------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|
| Parameter                                                               | Test Conditions                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Min              | Max                                | Unit                                     |
| V OH V OL I IH I IL I ILP I OZH I OZL I OZLS I OZLA I OZLAR I OZLC C IN | High Level Output Voltage 3 @V DD = min, I OH Low Level Output Voltage 3 @V DD = min, I OL High Level Input Current 5 @V DD = max, V IN Low Level Input Current 5 @V DD = max, V IN Low Level Input Current 6 @V DD = max, V IN Three-State Leakage Current 7, 8, 9, 10 @V DD = max, V IN Three-State Leakage Current 7 @V DD = max, V IN Three-State Leakage Current 8 @V DD = max, V IN Three-State Leakage Current 11 @V DD = max, V IN Three-State Leakage Current 10 @V DD = max, V IN Three-State Leakage Current 9 @V DD = max, V IN Input Capacitance 12, 13 f IN = 1 MHz, T CASE | 2.4              | 0.4 10 10 150 10 8 150 350 4 1.5 8 | V V m A m A m A m A m A m A m A mA mA pF |

## NOTES

1 Applies to input and bidirectional pins: DATA31-0, ADDR23-0, BSEL, RD , WR , SW , ACK, SBTS , IRQ 2-0, FLAG11-0, HBG , CS , DMAR1 , DMAR2 , BR 2-1 , ID 2-0 , RPBA, CPA , TFS0, TFS1, RFS0, RFS1, BMS , TMS, TDI, TCK, HBR , DR0A, DR1A, DR0B, DR1B, TCLK0, TCLK1, RCLK0, RCLK1, RESET , TRST , PWM\_EVENT0, PWM\_EVENT1, RAS , CAS , SDWE , SDCKE .

2 Applies to input pin CLKIN.

3 Applies to output and bidirectional pins: DATA31-0, ADDR23-0, MS3-0, RD , WR , SW , ACK, FLAG11-0, HBG , REDY, DMAG1 , DMAG2 , BR 2-1 , CPA , TCLK0, TCLK1, RCLK0, RCLK1, TFS0, TFS1, RFS0, RFS1, DT0A, DT1A, DT0B, DT1B, XTAL, BMS , TDO, EMU , BMSTR, PWM\_EVENT0, PWM\_EVENT1, RAS , CAS , DQM, SDWE , SDCLK0, SDCLK1, SDCKE , SDA10.

4 See Output Drive Currents for typical drive current capabilities.

5 Applies to input pins: ACK, SBTS , IRQ 2-0 , HBR , CS , DMAR1 , DMAR2 , ID1-0, BSEL, CLKIN, RESET , TCK (Note that ACK is pulled up internally with 2 k W during reset in a multiprocessor system, when ID 1-0 = 01 and another ADSP-21065L is not requesting bus mastership.)

6 Applies to input pins with internal pull-ups: DR0A, DR1A, DR0B, DR1B, TRST , TMS, TDI.

7 Applies to three-statable pins: DATA31-0, ADDR23-0, MS 3-0 , RD , WR , SW , ACK, FLAG11-0, REDY, HBG , DMAG 1 , DMAG 2 , BMS , TDO, RAS , CAS , DQM, SDWE , SDCLK0, SDCLK1, SDCKE , SDA10, and EMU (Note that ACK is pulled up internally with 2 k W during reset in a multiprocessor system, when ID1-0 = 01 and another ADSP-21065L is not requesting bus mastership).

8 Applies to three-statable pins with internal pull-ups: DT0A, DT1A, DT0B, DT1B, TCLK0, TCLK1, RCLK0, RCLK1.

9 Applies to CPA pin.

10 Applies to ACK pin when pulled up.

11 Applies to ACK pin when keeper latch enabled.

12 Guaranteed but not tested.

13 Applies to all signal pins.

Specifications subject to change without notice.

## ABSOLUTE MAXIMUM RATINGS *

| Supply Voltage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   | . . . . . -0.3 V to +4.6 V        |
|------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|
| Input Voltage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  | . -0.5 V to V DD + 0.5 V          |
| Output Voltage Swing . . . . . . . . .         | . -0.5 V to V DD + 0.5 V          |
| Load Capacitance . . . . . . . . . . . .       | . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200 pF  |
| Junction Temperature Under Bias                | . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130 ∞ C |

## ESD SENSITIVITY

ESD (electrostatic  discharge)  sensitive  device.  Electrostatic  charges  as  high  as  4000 V  readily accumulate on the human body and test equipment and can discharge without detection. Although the ADSP-21065L features proprietary ESD protection circuitry, permanent damage may occur on devices subjected to high energy electrostatic discharges. Therefore, proper ESD precautions are recommended to avoid performance degradation or loss of functionality.

| Storage Temperature Range .   | . . . . . . . . . . . .-65 ∞ C to +150 ∞ C    |
|-------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| Lead Temperature (5 seconds)  | . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 280 ∞ C |

<!-- image -->

## POWER DISSIPATION ADSP-21065L

These specifications apply to the internal power portion of VDD only. See the Power Dissipation section of this data sheet for calculation of external supply current and total supply current. For a complete discussion of the code used to measure power dissipation, see the technical note SHARC Power Dissipation Measurements.

Specifications are based on the following operating scenarios:

Table II. Internal Current Measurements

| Operation                                                                 | Peak Activity (I DDINPEAK )                             | High Activity (I DDINHIGH )                                   | Low Activity (I DDINLOW )                           |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| Instruction Type Instruction Fetch Core Memory Access Internal Memory DMA | Multifunction Cache 2 per Cycle (DM and PM) 1 per Cycle | Multifunction Internal Memory 1 per Cycle (DM) 1 per 2 Cycles | Single Function Internal Memory None 1 per 2 Cycles |

To estimate power consumption for a specific application, use the following equation where % is the amount of time your program spends in that state:

% PEAK ¥ IDDINPEAK + % HIGH ¥ IDDINHIGH + % LOW ¥ IDDINLOW + % IDLE ¥ IDDIDLE = POWER CONSUMPTION (See note 4 below Table III.)

OR % PEAK ¥ IDDINPEAK + % HIGH ¥ IDDINHIGH + % LOW ¥ IDDINLOW + % IDLE 16 ¥ IDDIDLE 16 = POWER CONSUMPTION (See note 5 below Table III.)

Table III. Internal Current Measurement Scenarios

| Parameter   |                             | Test Conditions                                   | Max     | Unit   |
|-------------|-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|---------|--------|
| I DDINPEAK  | Supply Current (Internal) 1 | t CK = 33 ns, V DD = max t CK = 30 ns, V DD = max | 470 510 | mA mA  |
| I DDINHIGH  | Supply Current (Internal) 2 | t CK = 33 ns, V DD = max t CK = 30 ns, V DD = max | 275 300 | mA mA  |
| I DDINLOW   | Supply Current (Internal) 3 | t CK = 33 ns, V DD = max t CK = 30 ns, V DD = max | 240 260 | mA mA  |
| I DDIDLE    | Supply Current (IDLE) 4     | t CK = 33 ns, V DD = max t CK = 30 ns, V DD = max | 150 155 | mA mA  |
| I DDIDLE16  | Supply Current (IDLE16) 5   | V DD = max                                        | 50      | mA     |

## NOTES

1 The test program used to measure IDDINPEAK represents worst-case processor operation and is not sustainable under normal application conditions. Actual internal power measurements made using typical applications are less than specified.

2 IDDINHIGH is a composite average based on a range of high activity code.

3 IDDINLOW is a composite average based on a range of low activity code.

4 IDLE denotes ADSP-21065L state during execution of IDLE instruction.

5 IDLE16 denotes ADSP-21065L state during execution of IDLE16 instruction.

## TIMING SPECIFICATIONS

## General Notes

Two speed grades of the ADSP-21065L are offered, 60 MHz and 66 MHz instruction rates. The specifications shown are based on a CLKIN frequency of 30 MHz (tCK = 33.3 ns). The DT derating allows specifications at other CLKIN frequencies (within the minmax range of the tCK specification; see Clock Input below). DT is the difference between the actual CLKIN period and a CLKIN period of 33.3 ns:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Use the exact timing information given. Do not attempt to derive parameters from the addition or subtraction of others. While addition or subtraction would yield meaningful results for an individual device, the values given in this data sheet reflect statistical variations and worst cases. Consequently, you cannot meaningfully add parameters to derive longer times.

See Figure 27 in Equivalent Device Loading for AC Measurements (Includes All Fixtures) for voltage reference levels.

## ADSP-21065L

Switching Characteristics specify how the processor changes its signals. You have no control over this timing-circuitry external to the processor must be designed for compatibility with these signal characteristics. Switching characteristics tell you what the processor will do in a given circumstance. You can also use switching characteristics to ensure that any timing requirement of a device connected to the processor (such as memory) is satisfied.

Timing Requirements apply to signals that are controlled by circuitry external to the processor, such as the data input for a read operation. Timing requirements guarantee that the processor operates correctly with other devices.

(O/D) = Open Drain

(A/D) = Active Drive

|                      | 66 MHz                  | 66 MHz   | 60 MHz   | 60 MHz   |      |
|----------------------|-------------------------|----------|----------|----------|------|
| Parameter            | Min                     | Max      | Min      | Max      | Unit |
| Clock Input          |                         |          |          |          |      |
| Timing Requirements: |                         |          |          |          |      |
| t CK CLKIN           | Period 30.00            | 100      | 33.33    | 100      | ns   |
| t CKL                | CLKIN Width Low 7.0     |          | 7.0      |          | ns   |
| t CKH CLKIN          | Width High 5.0          |          | 5.0      |          | ns   |
| t CKRF CLKIN         | Rise/Fall (0.4 V-2.0 V) | 3.0      |          | 3.0      | ns   |

<!-- image -->

Figure 7. Clock Input

| Parameter            | Parameter                       | Min          | Max   | Unit   |
|----------------------|---------------------------------|--------------|-------|--------|
| Reset                |                                 |              |       |        |
| Timing Requirements: | Timing Requirements:            |              |       |        |
| t WRST               | RESET Pulsewidth Low 1          | 2 t CK       |       | ns     |
| t SRST               | RESET Setup Before CLKIN High 2 | 23.5 + 24 DT | t CK  | ns     |

## NOTES

1 Applies after the power-up sequence is complete. At power-up, the processor's internal phase-locked loop requires no more than 3000 CLKIN cycles while RESET is low, assuming stable VDD and CLKIN (not including start-up time of external clock oscillator).

2 Only required if multiple ADSP-2106xs must come out of reset synchronous to CLKIN with program counters (PC) equal (i.e., for a SIMD system). Not required for multiple ADSP-2106xs communicating over the shared bus (through the external port), because the bus arbitration logic synchronizes itself automatically after reset.

<!-- image -->

Figure 8. Reset

| Parameter            | Parameter                                | Min           | Max         | Unit   |
|----------------------|------------------------------------------|---------------|-------------|--------|
| Interrupts           | Interrupts                               |               |             |        |
| Timing Requirements: | Timing Requirements:                     |               |             |        |
| t SIR                | IRQ 2-0 Setup Before CLKIN High or Low 1 | 11.0 + 12 DT  |             | ns     |
| t HIR                | IRQ 2-0 Hold Before CLKIN High or Low 1  |               | 0.0 + 12 DT | ns     |
| t IPW                | IRQ 2-0 Pulsewidth 2                     | 2.0 + t CK /2 |             | ns     |

## NOTES

1 Only required for IRQ x recognition in the following cycle.

2 Applies only if tSIR and tHIR requirements are not met.

<!-- image -->

Figure 9. Interrupts

| Parameter                  |                                        | Min   | Max   | Unit   |
|----------------------------|----------------------------------------|-------|-------|--------|
| Timer                      |                                        |       |       |        |
| Timing Requirements:       | Timing Requirements:                   |       |       |        |
| t STI                      | Timer Setup Before SDCLK High          | 0.0   |       | ns     |
| t HTI                      | Timer Hold After SDCLK High            | 6.0   |       | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics: | Switching Characteristics:             |       |       |        |
| t DTEX                     | Timer Delay After SDCLK High           |       | 1.0   | ns     |
| t HTEX                     | Timer Hold After SDCLK High            | -5.0  |       | ns     |
| Parameter                  |                                        | Min   | Max   | Unit   |
| Flags                      | Flags                                  |       |       |        |
| Timing Requirements:       | Timing Requirements:                   |       |       |        |
| t SFI                      | FLAG 11-0 IN Setup Before SDCLK High 1 | -2.0  |       | ns     |
| t HFI                      | FLAG 11-0 IN Hold After SDCLK High 1   | 6.0   |       | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics: | Switching Characteristics:             |       |       |        |
| t DFO                      | FLAG 11-0 OUT Delay After SDCLK High   |       | 1.0   | ns     |
| t HFO                      | FLAG 11-0 OUT Hold After SDCLK High    | -4.0  |       | ns     |
| t DFOE                     | SDCLK High to FLAG 11-0 OUT Enable     | -4.0  |       | ns     |
| t DFOD                     | SDCLK High to FLAG 11-0 OUT Disable    |       | -1.75 | ns     |

NOTE

1 Flag inputs meeting these setup and hold times will affect conditional instructions in the following instruction cycle.

Figure 10. Flags

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21065L

## ADSP-21065L

## Memory Read-Bus Master

Use these specifications for asynchronous interfacing to memories (and memory-mapped peripherals) without reference to CLKIN. These specifications apply when the ADSP-21065L is the bus master when accessing external memory space. These switching characteristics also apply for bus master synchronous read/write timing (see Synchronous Read/Write-Bus Master below). If these timing requirements are met, the synchronous read/write timing can be ignored (and vice versa). An exception to this is the ACK pin timing requirements as described in the note below.

| Parameter                  | Min                                       | Max              | Unit   |
|----------------------------|-------------------------------------------|------------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements:       |                                           |                  |        |
| t DAD                      | Address, Selects Delay to Data Valid 1, 2 | 28.0             | ns     |
| t DRLD                     | RD Low to Data Valid 1                    | 24.0             | ns     |
| t HDA                      | Data Hold from Address Selects 3          | 0.0              | ns     |
| t HDRH                     | Data Hold from RD High 3                  | 0.0              | ns     |
| t DAAK                     | ACK Delay from Address, Selects 2, 3      | 24.0             | ns     |
| t DSAK                     | ACK Delay from RD Low 3                   | 19.5             | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics: | Switching Characteristics:                |                  |        |
| t DRHA                     | Address, Selects Hold After RD High       | -1.0 + H         | ns     |
| t DARL                     | Address, Selects to RD Low 2              | 3.0 + 6 DT       | ns     |
| t RW                       | RD Pulsewidth                             | 25.0 + 26DT+W    | ns     |
| t RWR                      | RD High to WR , RD Low                    | 4.5 + 6 DT + HI  | ns     |
| t RDGL                     | RD High to DMAG x Low                     | 11.0 +12 DT + HI | ns     |

W = (number of wait states specified in WAIT register) ¥ tCK.

HI = tCK (if an address hold cycle or bus idle cycle occurs, as specified in WAIT register; otherwise HI = 0).

H = tCK (if an address hold cycle occurs as specified in WAIT register; otherwise H = 0).

## NOTES

1 Data Delay/Setup: User must meet tDAD or to tDRLD or synchronous specification tSSDATI.

2 The falling edge of MS x, SW , BMS , are referenced.

3 ACK is not sampled on external memory accesses that use the Internal wait state mode. For the first CLKIN cycle of a new external memory access, ACK must be valid by tDAAK or tDSAK or synchronous specification tSACKC for wait state modes External , Either , or Both ( Both , if the internal wait state is zero). For the second and subsequent cycles of a wait stated external memory access, synchronous specifications t SACKC and tHACKC must be met for wait state modes External , Either , or Both ( Both , after internal wait states have completed).

Figure 11. Memory Read-Bus Master

<!-- image -->

## Memory Write-Bus Master

Use these specifications for asynchronous interfacing to memories (and memory-mapped peripherals) without reference to CLKIN. These specifications apply when the ADSP-21065L is the bus master when accessing external memory space. These switching characteristics also apply for bus master synchronous read/write timing (see Synchronous Read/Write-Bus Master below). If these timing requirements are met, the synchronous read/write timing can be ignored (and vice versa). An exception to this is the ACK pin timing requirements as described in the note below.

| Parameter            | Min                                 | Max                      | Unit                           |
|----------------------|-------------------------------------|--------------------------|--------------------------------|
| Timing Requirements: |                                     |                          |                                |
| t DAAK               | ACK Delay from Address 1, 2 1       |                          | 24.0 + 30DT+W ns 19.5 + 24DT+W |
| t DSAK               | ACK Delay from WR Low               |                          | ns                             |
| Switching            | Characteristics:                    |                          |                                |
| t DAWH               | Address, Selects to WR Deasserted 2 | 29.0 + 31DT+W 3.5 + 6 DT | ns                             |
| t DAWL               | Address, Selects to WR Low 2        |                          | ns                             |
| t WW                 | WR Pulsewidth                       | 24.5 + 25DT+W            | ns                             |
| t DDWH               | Data Setup Before WR High           | 15.5 + 19DT+W            | ns                             |
| t DWHA               | Address Hold After WR Deasserted    | 0.0 + 1 DT + H           | ns                             |
| t DATRWH             | Data Disable After WR Deasserted 3  | 1.0 + 1 DT + H 4.0       | + 1 DT + H ns                  |
| t WWR                | WR High to WR , RD Low              | 4.5 + 7 DT + H           | ns                             |
| t WRDGL              | WR High to DMAG x Low               | 11.0 + 13 DT + H         | ns                             |
| t DDWR               | Data Disable Before WR or RD Low    | 3.5 + 6 DT + I           | ns                             |
| t WDE                | WR Low to Data Enabled              | 4.5 + 6 DT               | ns                             |

W = (number of wait states specified in WAIT register) ¥ tCK.

H = tCK (if an address hold cycle occurs, as specified in WAIT register; otherwise H = 0).

I = t CK (if a bus idle cycle occurs, as specified in WAIT register; otherwise I = 0).

## NOTES

1 ACK is not sampled on external memory accesses that use the Internal wait state mode. For the first CLKIN cycle of a new external memory access, ACK must be valid by tDAAK or tDSAK or synchronous specification tSACKC for wait state modes External , Either , or Both ( Both , if the internal wait state is zero). For the second and subsequent cycles of a wait stated external memory access, synchronous specifications t SACKC and tHACKC must be met for wait state modes External , Either , or Both ( Both , after internal wait states have completed).

2 The falling edge of MS x, SW , and BMS is referenced.

3 See System Hold Time Calculation under Test Conditions for calculation of hold times given capacitive and dc loads.

Figure 12. Memory Write-Bus Master

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21065L

## ADSP-21065L

## Synchronous Read/Write-Bus Master

Use these specifications for interfacing to external memory systems that require CLKIN-relative timing or for accessing a slave ADSP-21065L (in multiprocessor memory space). These synchronous switching characteristics are also valid during asynchronous memory reads and writes (see Memory Read-Bus Master and Memory Write-Bus Master).

When accessing a slave ADSP-21065L, these switching characteristics must meet the slave's timing requirements for synchronous read/writes (see Synchronous Read/Write-Bus Slave). The slave ADSP-21065L must also meet these (bus master) timing requirements for data and acknowledge setup and hold times.

| Parameter                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                      | Max                                           | Unit           |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|----------------|
| Timing Requirements:                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                      |                                               |                |
| t SSDATI t HSDATI t DAAK t SACKC t HACK t DADRO t HADRO t DRDO t DWRO t DRWL | Data Setup Before CLKIN Data Hold After CLKIN ACK Delay After Address, MS x, SW , BMS 1, 2 ACK Setup Before CLKIN 1 ACK Hold After CLKIN                             | 24.0 + 30DT+W                                 | ns ns ns ns ns |
| Switching                                                                    | Characteristics:                                                                                                                                                     |                                               |                |
| /                                                                            | Address, MS x, BMS , SW Delay After CLKIN 1 Address, MS x, BMS , SW Hold After CLKIN RD High Delay After CLKIN WR High Delay After CLKIN RD WR Low Delay After CLKIN | 7.0 - 2 DT 6.0 - 2 DT 6.0 - 3 DT 11.75 + 4 DT | ns ns ns ns ns |

W = (number of wait states specified in WAIT register) ¥ tCK.

NOTES

1 Data Hold: User must meet tHDA or tHDRH or synchronous specification tHDATI. See system hold time calculation under test conditions for the calculation of hold times given capacitive and dc loads.

2 ACK is not sampled on external memory accesses that use the Internal wait state mode. For the first CLKIN cycle of a new external memory access, ACK must be valid by tDAAK or tDSAK or synchronous specification tSACKC for wait state modes External , Either , or Both ( Both , if the internal wait state is zero). For the second and subsequent cycles of a wait stated external memory access, synchronous specifications t SACKC and tHACKC must be met for wait state modes External , Either , or Both ( Both , after internal wait states have completed).

3 See System Hold Time Calculation under Test Conditions for calculation of hold times given capacitive and dc loads.

## ADSP-21065L

Figure 13. Synchronous Read/Write-Bus Master

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21065L

## Synchronous Read/Write-Bus Slave

Use these specifications for ADSP-21065L bus master accesses of a slave's IOP registers or internal memory (in multiprocessor memory space). The bus master must meet these (bus slave) timing requirements.

| Parameter                  | Min                                                                                                      | Max                                      | Unit        |
|----------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|-------------|
| Timing Requirements:       |                                                                                                          |                                          |             |
| t SADRI                    | Address, SW Setup Before CLKIN                                                                           | 24.5 + 25 DT                             | ns          |
| t HADRI                    | Address, SW Hold Before CLKIN 1                                                                          | 4.0 + 8 DT 21.0 + 21 DT -2.50 - 5 DT 2.5 | ns ns ns ns |
| t SRWLI t HRWLI            | RD / WR Low Setup Before CLKIN RD / WR Low Hold After CLKIN RD / WR Pulse High Data Setup Before WR High | 7.5 + 7 DT                               |             |
| t RWHPI                    |                                                                                                          |                                          |             |
|                            |                                                                                                          | 4.5                                      | ns          |
| t SDATWH                   |                                                                                                          |                                          | ns          |
| t HDATWH                   | Data Hold After WR High                                                                                  | 0.0                                      |             |
| Switching Characteristics: |                                                                                                          |                                          |             |
| t SDDATO                   | Data Delay After CLKIN                                                                                   | 31.75 + 21 DT                            | ns          |
| t DATTR                    | Data Disable After CLKIN 2                                                                               | 1.0 - 2 DT 7.0 - 2 DT                    | ns          |
| t DACK                     | ACK Delay After CLKIN                                                                                    | 29.5 + 20 DT                             | ns          |
| t ACKTR                    | ACK Disable After CLKIN 2                                                                                | 1.0 - 2 DT 6.0 - 2 DT                    | ns          |

NOTES

1 tSRWLI is specified when Multiprocessor Memory Space Wait State (MMSWS bit in WAIT register) is disabled; when MMSWS is enabled, tSRWLI (min) = 17.5 + 18 DT. 2 See System Hold Time Calculation under Test Conditions for calculation of hold times given capacitive and dc loads.

For two ADSP-21065Ls to communicate synchronously as master and slave, certain master and slave specification combinations must be satisfied. Do not compare specification values directly to calculate master/slave clock skew margins for those specifications listed below. The following table shows the appropriate clock skew margin.

Table IV. Bus Master to Slave Skew Margins

| Master Specification   | Slave Specification   | Skew Margin                   |                     |
|------------------------|-----------------------|-------------------------------|---------------------|
| t SSDATI               | t SDDATO              | t CK = 33.3 ns t CK = 30.0 ns | + 2.25 ns + 1.50 ns |
| t SACKC                | t DACK                | t CK = 33.3 ns t CK = 30.0 ns | + 3.00 ns + 2.25 ns |
| t DADRO                | t SADRI               | t CK = 33.3 ns t CK = 30.0 ns | N/A + 2.75 ns       |
| t DRWL (Max)           | t SRWLI               | t CK = 33.3 ns t CK = 30.0 ns | + 1.50 ns + 1.25 ns |
| t DRDO (Max)           | t HRWLI (Max)         | t CK = 33.3 ns t CK = 30.0 ns | N/A 3.00 ns         |
| t DWRO (Max)           | t HRWLI (Max)         | t CK = 33.3 ns t CK = 30.0 ns | N/A 3.75 ns         |

## ADSP-21065L

Figure 14. Synchronous Read/Write-Bus Slave

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21065L

## Multiprocessor Bus Request and Host Bus Request

Use these specifications for passing of bus mastership between multiprocessing ADSP-21065Ls ( BR x) or a host processor ( HBR , HBG ).

| Parameter                  |                                                  | Min Max      |              | Unit   |
|----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|--------------|--------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements:       | Timing Requirements:                             |              |              |        |
| t HBGRCSV                  | HBG Low to RD / WR / CS Valid 1                  |              | 20.0 + 36 DT | ns     |
| t SHBRI                    | HBR Setup Before CLKIN 2                         | 12.0 + 12 DT |              | ns     |
| t HHBRI                    | HBR Hold Before CLKIN 2                          |              | 6.0 + 12 DT  | ns     |
| t SHBGI                    | HBG Setup Before CLKIN                           | 6.0 + 8 DT   |              | ns     |
| t HHBGI                    | HBG Hold Before CLKIN High                       |              | 1.0 + 8 DT   | ns     |
| t SBRI                     | BR x, CPA Setup Before CLKIN 3                   | 7.0 + 8 DT   |              | ns     |
| t HBRI                     | BR x, CPA Hold Before CLKIN High                 |              | 1.0 + 8 DT   | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics: | Switching Characteristics:                       |              |              |        |
| t DHBGO                    | HBG Delay After CLKIN                            |              | 8.0 - 2 DT   | ns     |
| t HHBGO                    | HBG Hold After CLKIN                             | 1.0 - 2 DT   |              | ns     |
| t DBRO                     | BR x Delay After CLKIN                           |              | 7.0 - 2 DT   | ns     |
| t HBRO                     | BR x Hold After CLKIN                            | 1.0 - 2 DT   |              | ns     |
| t DCPAO                    | CPA Low Delay After CLKIN                        |              | 11.5 - 2 DT  | ns     |
| t TRCPA                    | CPA Disable After CLKIN                          | 1.0 - 2 DT   | 5.5 - 2 DT   | ns     |
| t DRDYCS                   | REDY (O/D) or (A/D) Low from CS and HBR Low 4    |              | 13.0         | ns     |
| t TRDYHG                   | REDY (O/D) Disable or REDY (A/D) High from HBG 4 | 44.0 + 43 DT |              | ns     |
| t ARDYTR                   | REDY (A/D) Disable from CS or HBR High 4         |              | 10.0         | ns     |

## NOTES

1 For first asynchronous access after HBR and CS asserted, ADDR23-0 must be a nonMMS value 1/2 tCK before RD or WR goes low or by t HBGRCSV after HBG goes low. This is easily accomplished by driving an upper address signal high when HBG is asserted. See the Host Processor Control of the ADSP-21065L section of the ADSP-21065L SHARC User's Manual , Second Edition.

2 Only required for recognition in the current cycle.

3 CPA assertion must meet the setup to CLKIN; deassertion does not need to meet the setup to CLKIN.

4 (O/D) = open drain, (A/D) = active drive.

O/D = OPEN DRAIN, A/D = ACTIVE DRIVE

## ADSP-21065L

Figure 15. Multiprocessor Bus Request and Host Bus Request

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21065L

## Asynchronous Read/Write-Host to ADSP-21065L

Use these specifications for asynchronous host processor accesses of an ADSP-21065L, after the host has asserted CS and HBR (low). After the ADSP-21065L returns HBG , the host can drive the RD and WR pins to access the ADSP-21065L's IOP registers. HBR and HBG are assumed low for this timing. Writes can occur at a minimum interval of (1/2) tCK.

| Parameter                  |                                                 | Min       | Max   | Unit   |
|----------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|-----------|-------|--------|
| Read Cycle                 |                                                 |           |       |        |
| Timing Requirements:       | Timing Requirements:                            |           |       |        |
| t SADRDL                   | Address Setup / CS Low Before RD Low *          | 0.0       |       | ns     |
| t HADRDH                   | Address Hold/ CS Hold Low After RD High         | 0.0       |       | ns     |
| t WRWH                     | RD / WR High Width                              | 6.0       |       | ns     |
| t DRDHRDY                  | RD High Delay After REDY (O/D) Disable          | 0.0       |       | ns     |
| t DRDHRDY                  | RD High Delay After REDY (A/D) Disable          | 0.0       |       | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics: | Switching Characteristics:                      |           |       |        |
| t SDATRDY                  | Data Valid Before REDY Disable from Low         | 1.5       |       | ns     |
| t DRDYRDL                  | REDY (O/D) or (A/D) Low Delay After RD Low      |           | 13.5  | ns     |
| t RDYPRD                   | REDY (O/D) or (A/D) Low Pulsewidth for Read     | 28.0 + DT |       | ns     |
| t HDARWH                   | Data Disable After RD High                      | 2.0       | 10.0  | ns     |
| Write Cycle                | Write Cycle                                     |           |       |        |
| Timing Requirements:       | Timing Requirements:                            |           |       |        |
| t SCSWRL                   | CS Low Setup Before WR Low                      | 0.0       |       | ns     |
| t HCSWRH                   | CS Low Hold After WR High                       | 0.0       |       | ns     |
| t SADWRH                   | Address Setup Before WR High                    | 5.0       |       | ns     |
| t HADWRH                   | Address Hold After WR High                      | 2.0       |       | ns     |
| t WWRL                     | WR Low Width                                    | 7.0       |       | ns     |
| t WRWH                     | RD / WR High Width                              | 6.0       |       | ns     |
| t DWRHRDY                  | WR High Delay After REDY (O/D) or (A/D) Disable | 0.0       |       | ns     |
| t SDATWH                   | Data Setup Before WR High                       | 5.0       |       | ns     |
| t HDATWH                   | Data Hold After WR High                         | 1.0       |       | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics: | Switching Characteristics:                      |           |       |        |
| t DRDYWRL                  | REDY (O/D) or (A/D) Low Delay After WR / CS Low |           | 13.5  | ns     |
| t RDYPWR                   | REDY (O/D) or (A/D) Low Pulsewidth for Write    | 7.75      |       | ns     |

NOTE

* Not required if RD and address are valid t HBGRCSV after HBG goes low. For first access after HBR asserted, ADDR23-0 must be a nonMMS value 1/2 tCLK before RD or WR goes low or by tHBGRCSV after HBG goes low. This is easily accomplished by driving an upper address signal high when HBG is asserted. See Host Interface, in the ADSP-21065L SHARC User's Manual , Second Edition.

## ADSP-21065L

<!-- image -->

## WRITE CYCLE

Figure 16. Asynchronous Read/Write-Host to ADSP-21065L

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21065L

## Three-State Timing-Bus Master, Bus Slave, HBR , SBTS

These specifications show how the memory interface is disabled (stops driving) or enabled (resumes driving) relative to CLKIN and the SBTS pin. This timing is applicable to bus master transition cycles (BTC) and host transition cycles (HTC) as well as the SBTS pin.

| Parameter                  | Parameter                                 | Min         | Max        | Unit   |
|----------------------------|-------------------------------------------|-------------|------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements:       | Timing Requirements:                      |             |            |        |
| t STSCK                    | SBTS Setup Before CLKIN                   | 7.0 + 8 DT  |            | ns     |
| t HTSCK                    | SBTS Hold Before CLKIN                    |             | 1.0 + 8 DT | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics: | Switching Characteristics:                |             |            |        |
| t MIENA                    | Address/Select Enable AfterCLKIN          | 1.0 - 2 DT  |            | ns     |
| t MIENS                    | Strobes Enable After CLKIN 1              | -0.5 - 2 DT |            | ns     |
| t MIENHG                   | HBG Enable After CLKIN                    | 2.0 - 2 DT  |            | ns     |
| t MITRA                    | Address/Select Disable After CLKIN        |             | 3.0 - 4 DT | ns     |
| t MITRS                    | Strobes Disable After CLKIN 1             |             | 4.0 - 4 DT | ns     |
| t MITRHG                   | HBG Disable After CLKIN                   |             | 5.5 - 4 DT | ns     |
| t DATEN                    | Data Enable After CLKIN 2                 | 10.0 + 5 DT |            | ns     |
| t DATTR                    | Data Disable After CLKIN 2                | 1.0 - 2 DT  | 7.0 - 2 DT | ns     |
| t ACKEN                    | ACK Enable After CLKIN 2                  | 7.5 + 4 DT  |            | ns     |
| t ACKTR                    | ACK Disable After CLKIN 2                 | 1.0 - 2 DT  | 6.0 - 2 DT | ns     |
| t MTRHBG                   | Memory Interface Disable Before HBG Low 3 | 2.0 + 2 DT  |            | ns     |
| t MENHBG                   | Memory Interface Enable After HBG High 3  | 15.75 + DT  |            | ns     |

NOTES

1 Strobes = RD , WR , SW , DMAG .

2 In addition to bus master transition cycles, these specs also apply to bus master and bus slave synchronous read/write.

3 Memory Interface = Address, RD , WR , MS x, SW , DMAG x, BMS (in EPROM boot mode).

## ADSP-21065L

Figure 17. Three-State Timing

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21065L

## DMA Handshake

These specifications describe the three DMA handshake modes. In all three modes DMAR is used to initiate transfers. For handshake mode, DMAG controls the latching or enabling of data externally. For external handshake mode, the data transfer is controlled by the ADDR23-0, RD , WR , SW , MS 3-0, ACK, and DMAG signals. External mode cannot be used for transfers with SDRAM. For Paced Master mode, the data transfer is controlled by ADDR23-0, RD , WR , MS 3-0, and ACK (not DMAG ). For Paced Master mode, the Memory Read-Bus Master, Memory Write-Bus Master, and Synchronous Read/Write-Bus Master timing specifications for ADDR23-0, RD , WR , MS 3-0 , SW , DATA31-0, and ACK also apply.

| Parameter                  |                                       | Min               | Max          | Unit   |
|----------------------------|---------------------------------------|-------------------|--------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements:       | Timing Requirements:                  |                   |              |        |
| t SDRLC                    | DMAR x Low Setup Before CLKIN 1       | 5.0               |              | ns     |
| t SDRHC                    | DMAR x High Setup Before CLKIN 1      | 5.0               |              | ns     |
| t WDR                      | DMAR x Width Low (Nonsynchronous)     | 6.0               |              | ns     |
| t SDATDGL                  | Data Setup After DMAG x Low 2         |                   | 15.0 + 20 DT | ns     |
| t HDATIDG                  | Data Hold After DMAG x High           | 0.0               |              | ns     |
| t DATDRH                   | Data Valid After DMAR x High 2        |                   | 25.0 + 14 DT | ns     |
| t DMARLL                   | DMAR x Low Edge to Low Edge           | 18.0 + 14 DT      |              | ns     |
| t DMARH                    | DMAR x Width High                     | 6.0               |              | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics: | Switching Characteristics:            |                   |              |        |
| t DDGL                     | DMAG x Low Delay After CLKIN          | 14.0 + 10 DT      | 20.0 + 10 DT | ns     |
| t WDGH                     | DMAG x High Width                     | 10.0 + 12 DT + HI |              | ns     |
| t WDGL                     | DMAG x Low Width                      | 16.0 + 20 DT      |              | ns     |
| t HDGC                     | DMAG x High Delay AfterCLKIN          | 0.0 - 2 DT        | 6.0 - 2 DT   | ns     |
| t DADGH                    | Address Select Valid to DMAG x High   | 28.0 + 16 DT      |              | ns     |
| t DDGHA                    | Address Select Hold After DMAG x High | -1.0              |              | ns     |
| t VDATDGH                  | Data Valid Before DMAG x High 3       | 16.0 + 20 DT      |              | ns     |
| t DATRDGH                  | Data Disable After DMAG x High 4      | 0.0               | 4.0          | ns     |
| t DGWRL                    | WR Low Before DMAG x Low              | 5.0 + 6 DT        | 8.0 + 6 DT   | ns     |
| t DGWRH                    | DMAG x Low Before WR High             | 18.0 + 19DT+W     |              | ns     |
| t DGWRR                    | WR High Before DMAG x High            | 0.75 + 1 DT       | 3.0 + 1 DT   | ns     |
| t DGRDL                    | RD Low Before DMAG x Low              | 5.0               | 8.0          | ns     |
| t DRDGH                    | RD Low Before DMAG x High             | 24.0 + 26DT+W     |              | ns     |
| t DGRDR                    | RD High Before DMAG x High            | 0.0               | 2.0          | ns     |
| t DGWR                     | DMAG x High to WR , RD Low            | 5.0 + 6 DT + HI   |              | ns     |

## NOTES

1 Only required for recognition in the current cycle.

2 tSDATDGL is the data setup requirement if DMAR x is not being used to hold off completion of a write. Otherwise, if DMAR x low holds off completion of the write, the data can be driven tDATDRH after DMAR x is brought high.

3 t VDATDGH is valid if DMAR x is not being used to hold off completion of a read. If DMAR x is used to prolong the read, then tVDATDGH = 8 + 9 DT + (n ¥ tCK) where n equals the number of extra cycles that the access is prolonged.

4 See System Hold Time Calculation under Test Conditions for calculation of hold times given capacitive and dc loads.

TIMING SPECIFICATIONS FOR ADDR 23-0 ,

## ADSP-21065L

<!-- image -->

RD

,

WR

,

SW

,

MS

3-0 , AND ACK ALSO APPLY HERE.

Figure 18. DMA Handshake Timing

## ADSP-21065L

## SDRAM Interface-Bus Master

Use these specifications for ADSP-21065L bus master accesses of SDRAM.

| Parameter                  |                                             | Min Max      |               | Unit   |
|----------------------------|---------------------------------------------|--------------|---------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements:       | Timing Requirements:                        |              |               |        |
| t SDSDK                    | Data Setup Before SDCLK                     | 2.0          |               | ns     |
| t HDSDK                    | Data Hold After SDCLK                       | 1.25         |               | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics: | Switching Characteristics:                  |              |               |        |
| t DSDK1                    | First SDCLK Rise Delay After CLKIN          | 9.0 + 6 DT   | 12.75 + 6 DT  | ns     |
| t DSDK2                    | Second SDCLK Rise Delay After CLKIN         | 25.5 + 22 DT | 29.25 + 22 DT | ns     |
| t SDK                      | SDCLK Period                                | 16.67        | t CK /2       | ns     |
| t SDKH                     | SDCLK Width High                            | 7.5 + 8 DT   |               | ns     |
| t SDKL                     | SDCLK Width Low                             | 6.5 + 8 DT   |               | ns     |
| t DCADSDK                  | Command, Address, Data, Delay After SDCLK 1 |              | 10.0 + 5 DT   | ns     |
| t HCADSDK                  | Command, Address, Data, Hold After SDCLK 1  | 4.5 + 5 DT   |               | ns     |
| t SDTRSDK                  | Data Three-State After SDCLK                |              | 9.5 + 5 DT    | ns     |
| t SDENSDK                  | Data Enable After SDCLK 2                   | 6.0 + 5 DT   |               | ns     |
| t SDCTR                    | SDCLK, Command Three-State After CLKIN 1    | 5.0 + 3 DT   | 9.75 + 3 DT   | ns     |
| t SDCEN                    | SDCLK, Command Enable After CLKIN 1         | 5.0 + 2 DT   | 10.0 + 2 DT   | ns     |
| t SDATR                    | Address Three-State After CLKIN             | -1.0 - 4 DT  | 3.0 - 4 DT    | ns     |
| t SDAEN                    | Address Enable After CLKIN                  | 1.0 - 2 DT   | 7.0 - 2 DT    | ns     |

## NOTES

1 Command = SDCKE, MS x, RAS , CAS , SDWE , DQM, and SDA10.

2 SDRAM controller adds one SDRAM CLK three-stated cycle delay (tCK/2) on a Read followed by a Write.

## SDRAM Interface-Bus Slave

These timing requirements allow a bus slave to sample the bus master's SDRAM command and detect when a refresh occurs.

| Parameter            | Min          | Max          | Unit   |
|----------------------|--------------|--------------|--------|
| Timing Requirements: |              |              |        |
| t SSDKC1 First       | 6.50 + 16 DT | 17.5 + 16 DT | ns     |
| t SSDKC2 Second      | 23.25        | 34.25        | ns     |
| t SCSDK Command      | 0.0          |              | ns     |
| t HCSDK Command      | 2.0          |              | ns     |

NOTE

* Command = SDCKE, RAS , CAS , and SDWE .

MS

## ADSP-21065L

<!-- image -->

NOTES

1 COMMAND = SDCKE,

X ,

RAS

,

CAS

,

SDWE

, DQM, AND SDA10.

2 SDRAM CONTROLLER ADDS ONE SDRAM CLK THREE-STATED CYCLE DELAY (tCK /2) ON A READ FOLLOWED BY A WRITE.

Figure 19. SDRAM Interface

## ADSP-21065L

## Serial Ports

| Parameter                  |                                                                                            | Min               | Max               | Unit   |
|----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------|-------------------|--------|
| External Clock             | External Clock                                                                             |                   |                   |        |
| Timing Requirements:       | Timing Requirements:                                                                       |                   |                   |        |
| t SFSE                     | TFS/RFS Setup Before TCLK/RCLK 1                                                           | 4.0               |                   | ns     |
| t HFSE                     | TFS/RFS Hold After TCLK/RCLK 1                                                             | 4.0               |                   | ns     |
| t SDRE                     | Receive Data Setup Before RCLK 1                                                           | 1.5               |                   | ns     |
| t HDRE                     | Receive Data Hold After RCLK 1                                                             | 4.0               |                   | ns     |
| t SCLKW                    | TCLK/RCLK Width                                                                            | 9.0               |                   | ns     |
| t SCLK                     | TCLK/RCLK Period                                                                           | t CK              |                   | ns     |
| Internal Clock             | Internal Clock                                                                             |                   |                   |        |
| Timing Requirements:       | Timing Requirements:                                                                       |                   |                   |        |
| t SFSI                     | TFS Setup Before TCLK 2 ; RFS Setup Before RCLK 1                                          | 8.0               |                   | ns     |
| t HFSI                     | TFS/RFS Hold After TCLK/RCLK 1                                                             | 1.0               |                   | ns     |
| t SDRI                     | Receive Data Setup Before RCLK 1                                                           | 3.0               |                   | ns     |
| t HDRI                     | Receive Data Hold After RCLK 1                                                             | 3.0               |                   | ns     |
| External or Internal Clock | External or Internal Clock                                                                 |                   |                   |        |
| Switching Characteristics: | Switching Characteristics:                                                                 |                   |                   |        |
| t DFSE                     | RFS Delay After RCLK (Internally Generated RFS) 2                                          |                   | 13.0              | ns     |
| t HOFSE                    | RFS Hold After RCLK (Internally Generated RFS) 2                                           | 3.0               |                   | ns     |
| External Clock             | External Clock                                                                             |                   |                   |        |
| Switching Characteristics: | Switching Characteristics:                                                                 |                   |                   |        |
| t DFSE                     | TFS Delay After TCLK (Internally Generated TFS) 2                                          |                   | 13.0              | ns     |
| t HOFSE                    | TFS Hold After TCLK (Internally Generated TFS) 2                                           | 3.0               |                   | ns     |
| t DDTE                     | Transmit Data Delay After TCLK 2                                                           |                   | 12.5              | ns     |
| t HDTE                     | Transmit Data Hold After TCLK 2                                                            | 4.0               |                   | ns     |
| Internal Clock             | Internal Clock                                                                             |                   |                   |        |
| Switching Characteristics: | Switching Characteristics:                                                                 |                   |                   |        |
| t DFSI                     | TFS Delay After TCLK (Internally Generated TFS) 2                                          |                   | 4.5               | ns     |
| t HOFSI                    | TFS Hold After TCLK (Internally Generated TFS) 2                                           | -1.5              |                   | ns     |
| t DDTI                     | Transmit Data Delay After TCLK 2                                                           |                   | 7.5               | ns     |
| t HDTI                     | Transmit Data Hold After TCLK 2                                                            | 0.0               |                   | ns     |
| t SCLKIW                   | TCLK/RCLK Width                                                                            | (t SCLK /2) - 2.5 | (t SCLK /2) + 2.5 | ns     |
| Enable and Three-State     | Enable and Three-State                                                                     |                   |                   |        |
| Switching Characteristics: | Switching Characteristics:                                                                 |                   |                   |        |
| t DTENE                    | Data Enable from External TCLK 2                                                           | 5.0               |                   | ns     |
| t DDTTE                    | Data Disable from External RCLK 2                                                          |                   | 10.0              | ns     |
| t DTENI                    | Data Enable from Internal TCLK 2                                                           | 0.0               |                   | ns     |
| t DDTTI                    | Data Disable from Internal TCLK 2                                                          |                   | 3.0               | ns     |
| t DCLK                     | TCLK/RCLK Delay from CLKIN                                                                 |                   | 18.0 + 6 DT       | ns     |
| t DPTR                     | SPORT Disable After CLKIN                                                                  |                   | 14.0              | ns     |
| External Late Frame Sync   | External Late Frame Sync                                                                   |                   |                   |        |
| t DDTLFSE                  | Data Delay from Late External TFS or External RFS with MCE = 1, MFD = 0 3, 4               |                   |                   |        |
|                            |                                                                                            |                   | 10.5              | ns     |
| t DTENLFSE                 | Data Enable from late FS or MCE = 1, MFD = 0 3, 4                                          | 3.5               |                   | ns     |
| t DDTLSCK                  | Data Delay from TCLK/RCLK for Late External TFS or External RFS with MCE = 1, MFD = 0 3, 4 |                   | 12.0              | ns     |
| t DTENLSCK                 | Data Enable from RCLK/TCLK for Late External FS or MCE = 1, MFD = 0 3, 4                   | 4.5               |                   | ns     |

## NOTES

To determine whether communication is possible between two devices at clock speed n, the following specifications must be confirmed: 1) frame sync delay and frame sync setup-and-hold, 2) data delay and data setup-and-hold, and 3) SCLK width.

1 Referenced to sample edge.

2 Referenced to drive edge.

3 MCE = 1, TFS enable and TFS valid follow tDDTENFS and tDDTLFSE.

4 If external RFS/TFS setup to RCLK/TCLK &gt; tSCLK/2 then tDDTLSCK and tDTENLSCK apply; otherwise tDDTLFSE and tDTENLFS apply.

* Word selected timing for I 2 S mode is the same as TFS/RFS timing (normal framing only).

## ADSP-21065L

<!-- image -->

NOTE: EITHER THE RISING EDGE OR FALLING EDGE OF RCLK, TCLK CAN BE USED AS THE ACTIVE SAMPLING EDGE.

NOTE: EITHER THE RISING EDGE OR FALLING EDGE OF RCLK OR TCLK CAN BE USED AS THE ACTIVE SAMPLING EDGE.

<!-- image -->

Figure 20. Serial Ports

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21065L

Figure 21. External Late Frame Sync (Frame Sync Setup &lt; tSCLK/2)

<!-- image -->

## EXTERNAL RFS with MCE = 1, MFD = 0

<!-- image -->

## LATE EXTERNAL TFS

Figure 22. External Late Frame Sync (Frame Sync Setup &gt; tSCLK/2)

<!-- image -->

## JTAG Test Access Port and Emulation

| Parameter                  | Parameter                            | Min    | Max   | Unit   |
|----------------------------|--------------------------------------|--------|-------|--------|
| Timing Requirements:       | Timing Requirements:                 |        |       |        |
| t TCK                      | TCK Period                           | t CK   |       | ns     |
| t STAP                     | TDI, TMS Setup Before TCK High       | 3.0    |       | ns     |
| t HTAP                     | TDI, TMS Hold After TCK High         | 3.0    |       | ns     |
| t SSYS                     | System Inputs Setup Before TCK Low 1 | 7.0    |       | ns     |
| t HSYS                     | System Inputs Hold After TCK Low 1   | 12.0   |       | ns     |
| t TRSTW                    | TRST Pulsewidth                      | 4 t CK |       | ns     |
| Switching Characteristics: | Switching Characteristics:           |        |       |        |
| t DTDO                     | TDO Delay from TCK Low               |        | 11.0  | ns     |
| t DSYS                     | System Outputs Delay After TCK Low 2 |        | 15.0  | ns     |

NOTES

- 1 System Inputs = DATA31-0, ADDR23-0, RD , WR , ACK, SBTS , SW , HBR , HBG , CS , DMAR 1 , DMAR 2 , BR 2-1 , ID1-0 , IRQ 2-0, FLAG11-0, DR0x, DR1x, TCLK0, TCLK1, RCLK0, RCLK1, TFS0, TFS1, RFS0, RFS1, BSEL, BMS , CLKIN, RESET , SDCLK0, RAS , CAS , SDWE , SDCKE, PWM\_EVENTx.

2 System Outputs = DATA31-0, ADDR23-0, MS3-0, RD , WR , ACK, SW , HBG , REDY, DMAG1, DMAG2, BR 2-1 , CPA , FLAG11-0, PWM\_EVENTx, DT0x, DT1x, TCLK0, TCLK1, RCLK0, RCLK1, TFS0, TFS1, RFS0, RFS1, BMS , SDCLK0, SDCLK1, DQM, SDA10, RAS , CAS , SDWE , SDCKE, BM, XTAL.

Figure 23. JTAG Test Access Port and Emulation

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21065L

## ADSP-21065L

## OUTPUT DRIVE CURRENT

Figure 24. Typical Drive Currents

<!-- image -->

## TEST CONDITIONS

## Output Disable Time

Output pins are considered to be disabled when they stop driving, go into a high impedance state, and start to decay from their output high or low voltage. The time for the voltage on the bus to decay by D V is dependent on the capacitive load, CL and the load current, IL. This decay time can be approximated by the following equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The output disable time tDIS is the difference between tMEASURED and tDECAY as shown in Figure 26. The time tMEASURED is the interval from when the reference signal switches to when the output voltage decays D V from the measured output high or output low voltage. tDECAY is calculated with test loads CL and IL, and with D V equal to 0.5 V.

## Output Enable Time

Output pins are considered to be enabled when they have made a transition from a high impedance state to when they start driving. The output enable time tENA is the interval from when a reference signal reaches a high or low voltage level to when the output has reached a specified high or low trip point, as shown in the Output Enable/Disable diagram. If multiple pins (such as the data bus) are enabled, the measurement value is that of the first pin to start driving.

## Example System Hold Time Calculation

To determine the data output hold time in a particular system, first calculate tDECAY using the equation given above. Choose D V to be the difference between the ADSP-21065L's output voltage and the input threshold for the device requiring the hold time. A typical D V will be 0.4 V. CL is the total bus capacitance (per data line), and I L is the total leakage or three-state current (per data line). The hold time will be tDECAY plus the minimum disable time (i.e., tDATRWH for the write cycle).

<!-- image -->

Figure 25. Output Enable

Figure 26. Equivalent Device Loading for AC Measurements (Includes All Fixtures)

<!-- image -->

Figure 27. Voltage Reference Levels for AC Measurements (Except Output Enable/Disable)

<!-- image -->

## Capacitive Loading

Output delays and holds are based on standard capacitive loads: 50 pF on all pins. The delay and hold specifications given should be derated by a factor of l.8 ns/50 pF for loads other than the nominal value of 50 pF. Figure 28 and Figure 29 show how output rise time varies with capacitance. Figure 30 shows graphically how output delays and hold vary with load capacitance. (Note that this graph or derating does not apply to output disable delays; see the previous section Output Disable time under Test Conditions.) The graphs of Figure 28, Figure 29, and Figure 30 may not be linear outside the ranges shown.

Figure 28. Typical Rise and Fall Time (10%-90% VDD)

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21065L

Figure 29. Typical Rise and Fall Time (0.8 V-2.0 V)

<!-- image -->

Figure 30. Typical Output Delay or Hold

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21065L

## POWER DISSIPATION

Total power dissipation has two components: one due to internal circuitry and one due to the switching of external output drivers. Internal power dissipation depends on the sequence in which instructions execute and the data operands involved. See IDDIN calculation in Electrical Characteristics section. Internal power dissipation is calculated this way:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The external component of total power dissipation is caused by the switching of output pins. Its magnitude depends on:

- -the number of output pins that switch during each cycle (O)
- -the maximum frequency at which the pins can switch (f)
- -the load capacitance of the pins (C)
- -the voltage swing of the pins (VDD).

The external component is calculated using:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The load capacitance should include the processor's package capacitance (CIN). The frequency f includes driving the load high and then back low. Address and data pins can drive high and low at a maximum rate of 1/tCK while in SDRAM burst mode.

## Example:

Estimate PEXT with the following assumptions:

- -a system with one bank of external memory (32-bit)
- two 1M ¥ 16 SDRAM chips, each with a control signal load of 3 pF and a data signal load of 4 pF
- -external data writes occur in burst mode, two every 1/tCK cycles, a potential frequency of 1/tCK cycles/s. Assume 50% pin switching
- -the external SDRAM clock rate is 60 MHz (2/tCK).

The PEXT equation is calculated for each class of pins that can drive:

Table V. External Power Calculations

| Pin Type   |   # of Pins | % Switching   | × C    | × f      | × V DD 2   | = P EXT   |
|------------|-------------|---------------|--------|----------|------------|-----------|
| Address    |          11 | 50            | ¥ 10.7 | ¥ 30 MHz | ¥ 10.9 V   | = 0.019W  |
| MS 0       |           1 | 0             | ¥ 10.7 | -        | ¥ 10.9 V   | = 0.000W  |
| SDWE       |           1 | 0             | ¥ 10.7 | -        | ¥ 10.9 V   | = 0.000W  |
| Data       |          32 | 50            | ¥ 7.7  | ¥ 30 MHz | ¥ 10.9 V   | = 0.042W  |
| SDRAM CLK  |           1 | -             | ¥ 10.7 | ¥ 30 MHz | ¥ 10.9 V   | = 0.007W  |

PEXT = 0.068 W

A typical power consumption can now be calculated for these conditions by adding a typical internal power dissipation. (IDDIN see calculation in Electrical Characteristics section):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Note that the conditions causing a worst-case PEXT differ from those causing a worst-case PINT. Maximum PINT cannot occur while 100% of the output pins are switching from all ones (1s) to all zeros (0s). Note also that it is not common for an application to have 100% or even 50% of the outputs switching simultaneously.

## ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS

## Thermal Characteristics

The ADSP-21065L is offered in a 208-lead MQFP and a 196ball Mini-BGA package.

The ADSP-21065L is specified for a case temperature (TCASE). To ensure that TCASE is not exceeded, an air flow source may be used.

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

TCASE = Case temperature (measured on top surface of package)

- PD = Power Dissipation in W (this value depends upon the specific application; a method for calculating PD is shown under Power Dissipation)

q J C = ∞

7.1 C/W for 208-lead MQFP

q J C = 5.1 ∞ C/W for 196-ball Mini-BGA

## Airflow

Table VI. Thermal Characteristics (208-Lead MQFP)

| (Linear Ft./Min.)   |   0 |   100 |   200 |   400 |   600 |
|---------------------|-----|-------|-------|-------|-------|
| q CA ( ∞ C/W)       |  24 |    20 |    19 |    17 |    13 |

## Table VII. 196-Ball Mini-BGA

| (Linear Ft./Min.)   |   0 |   200 |   400 |
|---------------------|-----|-------|-------|
| q CA ( ∞ C/W)       |  38 |    29 |    23 |

## 208-LEAD MQFP PIN CONFIGURATION

| Pin No.   | Pin Name   | Pin No.   | Pin Name   | Pin No.   | Pin Name   | Pin No.   | Pin Name   | Pin No.   | Pin Name   |
|-----------|------------|-----------|------------|-----------|------------|-----------|------------|-----------|------------|
| 1         | VDD        | 43        | CAS        | 85        | VDD        | 127       | DATA28     | 169       | ADDR17     |
| 2         | RFS0       | 44        | SDWE       | 86        | DATA3      | 128       | DATA29     | 170       | ADDR16     |
| 3         | GND        | 45        | VDD        | 87        | DATA4      | 129       | GND        | 171       | ADDR15     |
| 4         | RCLK0      | 46        | DQM        | 88        | DATA5      | 130       | VDD        | 172       | VDD        |
| 5         | DR0A       | 47        | SDCKE      | 89        | GND        | 131       | VDD        | 173       | ADDR14     |
| 6         | DR0B       | 48        | SDA10      | 90        | DATA6      | 132       | DATA30     | 174       | ADDR13     |
| 7         | TFS0       | 49        | GND        | 91        | DATA7      | 133       | DATA31     | 175       | ADDR12     |
| 8         | TCLK0      | 50        | DMAG 1     | 92        | DATA8      | 134       | FLAG7      | 176       | VDD        |
| 9         | VDD        | 51        | DMAG 2     | 93        | VDD        | 135       | GND        | 177       | GND        |
| 10        | GND        | 52        | HBG        | 94        | GND        | 136       | FLAG6      | 178       | ADDR11     |
| 11        | DT0A       | 53        | BMSTR      | 95        | VDD        | 137       | FLAG5      | 179       | ADDR10     |
| 12        | DT0B       | 54        | VDD        | 96        | DATA9      | 138       | FLAG4      | 180       | ADDR9      |
| 13        | RFS1       | 55        | CS         | 97        | DATA10     | 139       | GND        | 181       | GND        |
| 14        | GND        | 56        | SBTS       | 98        | DATA11     | 140       | VDD        | 182       | VDD        |
| 15        | RCLK1      | 57        | GND        | 99        | GND        | 141       | VDD        | 183       | ADDR8      |
| 16        | DR1A       | 58        | WR         | 100       | DATA12     | 142       | NC         | 184       | ADDR7      |
| 17        | DR1B       | 59        | RD         | 101       | DATA13     | 143       | ID1        | 185       | ADDR6      |
| 18        | TFS1       | 60        | GND        | 102       | NC         | 144       | ID0        | 186       | GND        |
| 19        | TCLK1      | 61        | VDD        | 103       | NC         | 145       | EMU        | 187       | GND        |
| 20        | VDD        | 62        | GND        | 104       | DATA14     | 146       | TDO        | 188       | ADDR5      |
| 21        | VDD        | 63        | REDY       | 105       | VDD        | 147       | TRST       | 189       | ADDR4      |
| 22        | DT1A       | 64        | SW         | 106       | GND        | 148       | TDI        | 190       | ADDR3      |
| 23        | DT1B       | 65        | CPA        | 107       | DATA15     | 149       | TMS        | 191       | VDD        |
| 24        | PWM_EVENT1 | 66        | VDD        | 108       | DATA16     | 150       | GND        | 192       | VDD        |
| 25        | GND        | 67        | VDD        | 109       | DATA17     | 151       | TCK        | 193       | ADDR2      |
| 26        | PWM_EVENT0 | 68        | GND        | 110       | VDD        | 152       | BSEL       | 194       | ADDR1      |
| 27        | BR1        | 69        | ACK        | 111       | DATA18     | 153       | BMS        | 195       | ADDR0      |
| 28        | BR2        | 70        | MS 0       | 112       | DATA19     | 154       | GND        | 196       | GND        |
| 29        | VDD        | 71        | MS 1       | 113       | DATA20     | 155       | GND        | 197       | FLAG0      |
| 30        | CLKIN      | 72        | GND        | 114       | GND        | 156       | VDD        | 198       | FLAG1      |
| 31        | XTAL       | 73        | GND        | 115       | NC         | 157       | RESET      | 199       | FLAG2      |
| 32        | VDD        | 74        | MS 2       | 116       | DATA21     | 158       | VDD        | 200       | VDD        |
| 33        | GND        | 75        | MS 3       | 117       | DATA22     | 159       | GND        | 201       | FLAG3      |
| 34        | SDCLK1     | 76        | FLAG11     | 118       | DATA23     | 160       | ADDR23     | 202       | NC         |
| 35        | GND        | 77        | VDD        | 119       | GND        | 161       | ADDR22     | 203       | NC         |
| 36        | VDD        | 78        | FLAG10     | 120       | VDD        | 162       | ADDR21     | 204       | GND        |
| 37        | SDCLK0     | 79        | FLAG9      | 121       | DATA24     | 163       | VDD        | 205       | IRQ 0      |
| 38        |            |           |            |           |            |           |            |           |            |
|           | DMAR 1     | 80        | FLAG8      | 122       | DATA25     | 164       | ADDR20     | 206       | IRQ 1      |
| 40        | HBR        | 82        | DATA0      | 124       | VDD        | 166       | ADDR18     | 208       | NC         |
| 41        | GND        | 83        | DATA1      | 125       | GND        | 167       | GND        |           |            |
| 42        | RAS        | 84        | DATA2      | 126       | DATA27     | 168       | GND        |           |            |

## ADSP-21065L

## ADSP-21065L

## 208-LEAD MQFP PIN

<!-- image -->

## OUTLINE  DIMENSIONS

## 208-Lead Metric Quad Flat Package [MQFP] (S-208-2)

Dimensions shown in millimeters

<!-- image -->

## ADSP-21065L

## ADSP-21065L

## 196-BALL MINI-BGA PIN CONFIGURATION

| Ball #   | Name   | Ball #   | Name          | Ball #   | Name        | Ball #   | Name   | Ball #   | Name   |
|----------|--------|----------|---------------|----------|-------------|----------|--------|----------|--------|
| A1       | NC1    | B1       | DR0A          | C1       | TCLK0       | D1       | RCLK1  | E1       | TFS1   |
| A2       | NC2    | B2       | RFS0          | C2       | RCLK0       | D2       | TFS0   | E2       | DT0B   |
| A3       | FLAG2  | B3       | IRQ0          | C3       | IRQ2        | D3       | DR0B   | E3       | DT0A   |
| A4       | ADDR0  | B4       | FLAG0         | C4       | FLAG3       | D4       | IRQ1   | E4       | RFS1   |
| A5       | ADDR3  | B5       | ADDR2         | C5       | ADDR1       | D5       | FLAG1  | E5       | VDD    |
| A6       | ADDR6  | B6       | ADDR5         | C6       | ADDR4       | D6       | VDD    | E6       | GND    |
| A7       | ADDR7  | B7       | ADDR9         | C7       | ADDR10      | D7       | VDD    | E7       | GND    |
| A8       | ADDR8  | B8       | ADDR12        | C8       | ADDR13      | D8       | VDD    | E8       | GND    |
| A9       | ADDR11 | B9       | ADDR15        | C9       | ADDR16      | D9       | VDD    | E9       | GND    |
| A10      | ADDR14 | B10      | ADDR19        | C10      | ADDR20      | D10      | VDD    | E10      | VDD    |
| A11      | ADDR17 | B11      | ADDR21        | C11      | ADDR22      | D11      | BMS    | E11      | ID0    |
| A12      | ADDR18 | B12      | ADDR23        | C12      | RESET       | D12      | TMS    | E12      | TDI    |
| A13      | NC8    | B13      | GND           | C13      | BSEL        | D13      | TRST   | E13      | ID1    |
| A14      | NC7    | B14      | TCK           | C14      | TDO         | D14      | EMU    | E14      | FLAG4  |
| F1       | TCLK1  | G1       | PWM_ EVENT1   | H1       | PWM_ EVENT0 | J1       | CLKIN  | K1       | DMAR1  |
| F2       | DR1B   | G2       | DT1B          | H2       | BR1         | J2       | XTAL   | K2       | SDCLK0 |
| F3       | DR1A   | G3       | DT1A          | H3       | BR2         | J3       | SDCLK1 | K3       | HBR    |
| F4       | VDD    | G4       | VDD           | H4       | VDD         | J4       | VDD    | K4       | SDWE   |
| F5       | GND    | G5       | GND           | H5       | GND         | J5       | GND    | K5       | VDD    |
| F6       | GND    | G6       | GND           | H6       | GND         | J6       | GND    | K6       | GND    |
| F7       | GND    | G7       | GND           | H7       | GND         | J7       | GND    | K7       | GND    |
| F8       | GND    | G8       | GND           | H8       | GND         | J8       | GND    | K8       | GND    |
| F9       | GND    | G9       | GND           | H9       | GND         | J9       | GND    | K9       | GND    |
| F10      | GND    | G10      | GND           | H10      | GND         | J10      | GND    | K10      | VDD    |
| F11      | VDD    | G11      | VDD           | H11      | VDD         | J11      | VDD    | K11      | DATA19 |
| F12      | FLAG6  | G12      | DATA31        | H12      | DATA28      | J12      | DATA24 | K12      | DATA21 |
| F13      | FLAG5  | G13      | DATA30        | H13      | DATA27      | J13      | DATA25 | K13      | DATA20 |
| F14      | FLAG7  | G14      | DATA29        | H14      | DATA26      | J14      | DATA23 | K14      | DATA22 |
| L1       | DMAR2  | M1       | RAS           | N1       | DQM         | P1       | NC3    |          |        |
| L2       | CAS    | M2       | SDCKE         | N2       | HBG         | P2       | NC4    |          |        |
| L3       | SDA10  | M3       | DMAG1         | N3       | BMSTR       | P3       | GND    |          |        |
| L4       | DMAG2  | M4       | CS            | N4       | SBTS        | P4       | WR     |          |        |
| L5       | VDD    | M5       | RD            | N5       | REDY        | P5       | SW     |          |        |
| L6       | VDD    | M6       | CPA           | N6       | GND         | P6       | MS0    |          |        |
| L7       | VDD    | M7       | ACK           | N7       | MS1         | P7       | MS2    |          |        |
| L8       | VDD    | M8       | FLAG10        | N8       | FLAG11      | P8       | MS3    |          |        |
| L9       | VDD    | M9       | DATA2         | N9       | DATA1       | P9       | FLAG9  |          |        |
| L10      | DATA8  | M10      | DATA5         | N10      | DATA4       | P10      | FLAG8  |          |        |
| L11      | DATA13 | M11      | DATA9         | N11      | DATA7       | P11      | DATA0  |          |        |
| L12      | DATA16 | M12 M13  | DATA12        | N12      | DATA10      | P12      | DATA3  |          |        |
| L13      | DATA17 | M14      | DATA14 DATA15 | N13 N14  | DATA11      | P13      | DATA6  |          |        |
| L14      | DATA18 |          |               |          | NC6         | P14      | NC5    |          |        |

## 196-BALL MINI-BGA PIN CONFIGURATION

| 14     | 13     | 12            | 11     | 10     | 9      | 8      | 7      | 6     | 5     | 4     | 3      | 2      | 1           |
|--------|--------|---------------|--------|--------|--------|--------|--------|-------|-------|-------|--------|--------|-------------|
| NC7    | NC8    | ADDR18 ADDR17 | ADDR14 |        | ADDR11 | ADDR8  | ADDR7  | ADDR6 | ADDR3 | ADDR0 | FLAG2  | NC2    | NC1         |
| TCK    | GND    | ADDR23        | ADDR21 | ADDR19 | ADDR15 | ADDR12 | ADDR9  | ADDR5 | ADDR2 | FLAG0 | IRQ0   | RFS0   | DR0A        |
| TDO    | BSEL   | RESET         | ADDR22 | ADDR20 | ADDR16 | ADDR13 | ADDR10 | ADDR4 | ADDR1 | FLAG3 | IRQ2   | RCLK0  | TCLK0       |
| EMU    | TRST   | TMS           | BMS    | VDD    | VDD    | VDD    | VDD    | VDD   | FLAG1 | IRQ1  | DR0B   | TFS0   | RCLK1       |
| FLAG4  | ID1    | TDI           | ID0    | VDD    | GND    | GND    | GND    | GND   | VDD   | RFS1  | DT0A   | DT0B   | TFS1        |
| FLAG7  | FLAG5  | FLAG6         | VDD    | GND    | GND    | GND    | GND    | GND   | GND   | VDD   | DR1A   | DR1B   | TCLK1       |
| DATA29 | DATA30 | DATA31        | VDD    | GND    | GND    | GND    | GND    | GND   | GND   | VDD   | DT1A   | DT1B   | PWM_ EVENT1 |
| DATA26 | DATA27 | DATA28        | VDD    | GND    | GND    | GND    | GND    | GND   | GND   | VDD   | BR2    | BR1    | PWM_ EVENT0 |
| DATA23 | DATA25 | DATA24        | VDD    | GND    | GND    | GND    | GND    | GND   | GND   | VDD   | SDCLK1 | XTAL   | CLKIN       |
| DATA22 | DATA20 | DATA21        | DATA19 | VDD    | GND    | GND    | GND    | GND   | VDD   | SDWE  | HBR    | SDCLK0 | DMAR1       |
| DATA18 | DATA17 | DATA16        | DATA13 | DATA8  | VDD    | VDD    | VDD    | VDD   | VDD   | DMAG2 | SDA10  | CAS    | DMAR2       |
| DATA15 | DATA14 | DATA12        | DATA9  | DATA5  | DATA2  | FLAG10 | ACK    | CPA   | RD    | CS    | DMAG1  | SDCKE  | RAS         |
| NC6    | DATA11 | DATA10        | DATA7  | DATA4  | DATA1  | FLAG11 | MS1    | GND   | REDY  | SBTS  | BMSTR  | HBG    | DQM         |
| NC5    | DATA6  | DATA3         | DATA0  | FLAG8  | FLAG9  | MS3    | MS2    | MS0   | SW    | WR    | GND    | NC4    | NC3         |

## ADSP-21065L

## ADSP-21065L

## Revision History

| Location                                                                                          | Page          |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| 6/03-Data Sheet changed from REV. B to REV. C.                                                    |               |
| Edit to GENERAL DESCRIPTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         | . . . . . . 3 |
| Removal of overbar from DQM . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . | Universal     |
| Edit to POWER DISSIPATION ADSP-21065L (equations above Table III)                                 | . . . . . 13  |
| Addition to ORDERING GUIDE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      | . . . . . 44  |
| Update to OUTLINE DIMENSIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            | . . 41, 44    |

## ORDERING GUIDE

| Part Number        | Case Temperature Range   | Instruction Rate   | On-Chip SRAM   | Operating Voltage   | Package Options   |
|--------------------|--------------------------|--------------------|----------------|---------------------|-------------------|
| ADSP-21065LKS-240  | 0 ° C to +85 ° C         | 60 MHz             | 544 Kbit       | 3.3 V               | MQFP              |
| ADSP-21065LCS-240  | -40 ° C to +100 ° C      | 60 MHz             | 544 Kbit       | 3.3 V               | MQFP              |
| ADSP-21065LKCA-240 | 0 ° C to +85 ° C         | 60 MHz             | 544 Kbit       | 3.3 V               | Mini-BGA          |
| ADSP-21065LKS-264  | 0 ° C to +85 ° C         | 66 MHz             | 544 Kbit       | 3.3 V               | MQFP              |
| ADSP-21065LKCA-264 | 0 ° C to +85 ° C         | 66 MHz             | 544 Kbit       | 3.3 V               | Mini-BGA          |
| ADSP-21065LCCA-240 | -40 ° C to +100 ° C      | 60 MHz             | 544 Kbit       | 3.3 V               | Mini-BGA          |

## OUTLINE  DIMENSIONS

## 196-Lead Chip Scale Ball Grid Array [CSPBGA]

Dimensions shown in millimeters

<!-- image -->

## NOTES:

1. THE ACTUAL POSITION OF THE BALL GRID IS WITHIN 0.30 OF ITS IDEAL POSITION RELATIVE TO THE PACKAGE EDGES.
2. THE ACTUAL POSITION OF EACH BALL IS WITHIN 0.10 OF ITS IDEAL POSITION RELATIVE TO THE BALL GRID.
3. DIMENSIONS COMPLY WITH JEDEC STANDARD MS-034AAE-1.
4. CENTER DIMENSIONS ARE NOMINAL.