<!-- lastmod 2023-07-17 -->
<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

Not Recommended for New Design DS1427 Time iButton DS1427 021798 1/2 FEATURES · Provides a unique 64-bit serial number, 4K bits of RAM · No external power required · Uses inexpensive 1-Wire TM  protocol · Universally portable across platforms · Programmable secure real time clock with alarm and elapsed timer. PACKAGE OUTLINE DESCRIPTION Authorization iButtons are sophisticated microelectronics,  sealed  into  miniature  stainless  steel  cans,  creating  a low cost, portable medium for storing and controlling access to sensitive information. iButtons  are  used  with  port  adapters  as  a  hardware based protection system for software.  iButtons help protect the right to copy software by actually protecting the right to execute it.  Software can now be locked to a user, a machine, or an application with a complete audit trail and guaranteed uniqueness. The DS1427 provides a 64-bit unique ID number, 4K bits of RAM, and a programmable real time clock.  The DS1427 is used in leasing and rental applications, software metering, and to vary valid protection keys by time. Ability to distribute demonstration software that expire on a date controlled by the deliverer. Hardware  communication  with  the  iButtons  is  conducted via a 1-wire interface.  The conversion from a PC I/O port to the 1-wire interface is the responsibility of the port adapter. Software  applications  communicate  with  the  iButton using Dallas' Access System, which is contained in any of the port adapter Developer's kits.  The Access System  provides  easy  to  use  commands  which  are embedded into the application  in  order  to  utilize  the iButton resources during run time. Each Dallas iButton is uniquely serialized with a 64-bit code that is laser-etched in the silicon.  This unique ID provides a basic level of security, is traceable in the field, and makes it possible to identify the specific iButton in a field of many. The serial number is divided into three parts (see Figure 1).  The 8-bit family code tells the Access System (and consequently  the  developer)  what  type  of  iButton  is being used.  The next 48 bits are lasered sequentially with no two numbers  the same.  The last 8 bits contain a Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) value that has been calculated across the family code and the 48-bit serial number.  The CRC ensures that iButton communication is error free. The DS1427 tracks elapsed time from either initial programming or from first access by the application software.  All timers and alarms can be locked from reprogramming, so that the time base is not compromised in any way.

FAMILY CODE

| 8-BIT CRC CODE   | 8-BIT CRC CODE                                   | 48-BIT SERIAL NUMBER                             | 10000100                                         |                                                  |
|------------------|--------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| MSB 0000h 01FFh  | for 512 Bytes NV SRAM 16 Pages 32 Bytes per Page | for 512 Bytes NV SRAM 16 Pages 32 Bytes per Page | for 512 Bytes NV SRAM 16 Pages 32 Bytes per Page | for 512 Bytes NV SRAM 16 Pages 32 Bytes per Page |
| 0200h 0201h      | Configuration and Status Registers               | Configuration and Status Registers               | Configuration and Status Registers               | Configuration and Status Registers               |
| 0202h 0206h      | Real Time Clock                                  | Real Time Clock                                  | Real Time Clock                                  | Real Time Clock                                  |
| 0207h 020Bh      | Elapsed Timer                                    | Elapsed Timer                                    | Elapsed Timer                                    | Elapsed Timer                                    |
| 020Ch 020Fh      | Reserved                                         | Reserved                                         | Reserved                                         | Reserved                                         |
| 0210h 0214h      | RTC Alarm                                        | RTC Alarm                                        | RTC Alarm                                        | RTC Alarm                                        |
| 0215h 0219h      | Elapsed Time Alarm                               | Elapsed Time Alarm                               | Elapsed Time Alarm                               | Elapsed Time Alarm                               |
| 021Ah 021Dh      | Reserved                                         | Reserved                                         | Reserved                                         | Reserved                                         |

Not Recommended for New Design DS1427 021798 2/2 Memory is organized into 16 pages of 256 bits each.  An additional  scratch  page  is  provided  to  validate  data before it is written into storage areas. There  are  four  function  commands  to  address  the memory.  Three commands are used to read, write, or copy data to or from the scratch page and the storage areas accordingly.  All data is written to the scratch page first,  verified,  and  then  copied  to  the  appropriate  storage locations.  The fourth command is used to read the contents of the storage locations, the clock, elapsed timer, alarm registers, or the configuration/status registers. The real time clock keeps time in 1/256 second increments.  This can be translated into seconds, minutes, days, months or years.  A read of the clock will return the number  of  seconds  after  the  reference  date.    The elapsed timer can be stopped or started based on the contents of the configuration registers. The configuration and status registers control the operating mode of the DS1427.  Setting alarms and controlling interrupts for the clock and elapsed timer are user selectable.  Additional registers are used to control the clock oscillator, elapsed timer triggers, and to provide write protection for various memory locations. DS1427 TIME iButton ORGANIZATION Figure 1