<!-- lastmod 2026-04-14 -->
## FEATURES

-  256-bit Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory (EEPROM) plus 64-bit one-time programmable application register
-  Unique, 64-bit registration number (8-bit family code + 48-bit serial number + 8-bit CRC tester) assures absolute identity because no two parts are alike
-  Built-in multidrop controller ensures compatibility with other 1-Wire ®  Net products
-  EEPROM organized as one page of 32 bytes for random access
-  Reduces control, address, data, and power to a single data pin
-  Directly connects to a single port pin of a microprocessor and communicates at up to 14.3kbits per second
-  8-bit family code specifies DS2430A communication requirements to reader
-  Presence detector acknowledges when reader first applies voltage
-  Low cost TO-92 or 6-pin TSOC and UCSP surface-mount package
-  Reads and writes over a wide voltage range of 2.8V to 5.25V from -40°C to +85°C

## ORDERING INFORMATION

| PART         | TEMP RANGE     | PIN-PACKAGE      |
|--------------|----------------|------------------|
| DS2430A+     | -40°C to +85°C | 3 TO-92          |
| DS2430A+T&R  | -40°C to +85°C | 3 TO-92 (2k pcs) |
| DS2430AP+    | -40°C to +85°C | 6 TSOC           |
| DS2430AP+T&R | -40°C to +85°C | 6 TSOC (4k pcs)  |

+Denotes a lead(Pb)-free/RoHS-compliant package. T&amp;R = Tape and reel.

<!-- image -->

## PIN ASSIGNMENT

BOTTOM VIEW

<!-- image -->

NOTE: The leads of TO-92 packages on tape and reel are formed to approximately  100-mil  (2.54mm)  spacing.  For  details  see  the Package Information .

## PIN DESCRIPTION

|       | TO-92   | TSOC   |
|-------|---------|--------|
| Pin 1 | Ground  | Ground |
| Pin 2 | Data    | Data   |
| Pin 3 | NC      | NC     |
| Pin 4 | ----    | NC     |
| Pin 5 | ----    | NC     |
| Pin 6 | ----    | NC     |

1-Wire is a registered trademark of Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

## DESCRIPTION

The DS2430A 256-bit 1-Wire EEPROM identifies and stores relevant information about the product to which it is associated. This lot or product specific information can be accessed with minimal interface, for example a single port pin of a microcontroller. The DS2430A consists of a programmed registration number that includes a unique 48-bit serial number, an 8-bit CRC, and an 8-bit Family Code (14h) plus 256 bits of user-programmable EEPROM and a 64-bit one-time programmable application register. The power to read and write the DS2430A is derived entirely from the 1-Wire communication line. Data is transferred serially via the 1-Wire protocol, which requires only a single data lead and a ground return. The 48-bit serial number that is  programmed into each DS2430A provides a guaranteed unique identity that allows for absolute traceability. The TO-92 and TSOC packages provide a compact enclosure that allows standard assembly equipment  to  handle  the  device  easily  for  attachment  to  printed  circuit  boards  or  wiring.  Typical applications include storage of calibration constants, board identification, and product revision status.

## OVERVIEW

The block diagram in Figure 1 shows the relationships between the major control and memory sections of the DS2430A. The DS2430A has four main data components: 1) 64-bit unique ROM, 2) 256-bit EEPROM data memory with scratchpad, 3) 64-bit one-time programmable application register with scratchpad and 4) 8-bit status memory. The hierarchical structure of the 1-Wire protocol is shown in Figure 2. The bus controller must first provide one of the four ROM Function Commands: 1) Read ROM, 2) Match ROM, 3) Search ROM, 4) Skip ROM. The protocol required for these ROM Function Commands is described in Figure  8.  After  a  ROM  Function  Command  is  successfully  executed,  the  memory  functions  become accessible and the controller can provide any one of the four memory function commands. The protocol for these memory function commands is described in Figure 6. All data is read and written least significant bit first.

## 64-BIT UNIQUE ROM

Each DS2430A contains a unique ROM code that is 64 bits long. The first 8 bits are a 1-Wire family code (14h). The next 48 bits are a unique serial number. The last 8 bits are a CRC of the first 56 bits. (Figure 3). The 1-Wire CRC is generated using a polynomial generator consisting of a shift register and XOR gates as shown in Figure 4. The polynomial is X 8 + X 5 + X 4 + 1. Additional information about the 1-Wire CRC is available in the Understanding and Using Cyclic Redundancy Checks with Maxim 1-Wire and iButton Products application note. The shift register bits are initialized to 0. Then starting with the least significant bit of the family code, one bit at a time is shifted in. After the 8 th bit of the family code has been entered, then the serial number is entered. After the 48 th bit of the serial number has been entered, the shift register contains the CRC value. Shifting in the 8 bits of CRC should return the shift register to all 0s.

1-Wire is a registered trademark of Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.

## DS2430A BLOCK DIAGRAM Figure 1

<!-- image -->

## HIERARCHICAL STRUCTURE FOR 1-WIRE PROTOCOL Figure 2

<!-- image -->

## 64-BIT UNIQUE ROM Figure 3

<!-- image -->

| 8-Bit CRC Code   | 8-Bit CRC Code   | 48-Bit Serial Number   | 48-Bit Serial Number   | 8-Bit Family Code (14H)   |
|------------------|------------------|------------------------|------------------------|---------------------------|
| MSB              | LSB              | MSB                    | LSB                    | MSB LSB                   |

## 1-Wire CRC GENERATOR Figure 4

<!-- image -->

## MEMORY

The memory of the DS2430A consists of three separate sections, called data memory, application register, and status register (Figure 5). The data memory and the application register each have its own intermediate storage area called scratchpad that acts as a buffer when writing to the device. The data memory can be read and written as often as desired. The application register, however, is one-time programmable only. Once  the  application  register  is  programmed,  it  is  automatically  write  protected.  The  status  register indicates whether the application register is already locked or whether it is still available for storing data. As long as the application register is unprogrammed, the status register reads FFh. Copying data from the register scratchpad to the application register clears the 2 least significant bits of the status register, yielding an FCh the next time one reads the status register.

## DS2430A MEMORY MAP Figure 5

## Data Memory

0oh

256-BITINTERMEDIATESTORAGESCRATCHPAD

1Fh L

ADDRESS

0oh

256-BITFINALSTORAGEEEPROM

1Fh

## Application Register

0oh

64-BITINTERMEDIATE REGISTERSCRATCHPAD

07h

ADDRESS

ooh

64-BITAPPLICATIONREGISTER

07h

Status Register

8-BITSTATUSINFORMATION

<!-- image -->

## MEMORY FUNCTION COMMANDS

The Memory Function Flow Chart (Figure 6) describes the protocols necessary for accessing the different memory sections of the DS2430A. An example is shown later in this document.

## WRITE SCRATCHPAD [0Fh]

After issuing the Write Scratchpad command, the controller must first provide a 1-byte address, followed by the data to be written to the scratchpad for the data memory. The DS2430A automatically increments the address after every byte it receives. After having received a data byte for address 1Fh, the address counter wraps around to 00h for the next byte and writing continues until the controller sends a Reset Pulse.

## READ SCRATCHPAD [AAh]

This command is used to verify data previously written to the scratchpad before it is copied into the final storage EEPROM memory. After issuing the Read Scratchpad command, the controller must provide the 1-byte starting address from where data is to be read. The DS2430A automatically increments the address after every byte read by the controller. After the data at address 1Fh has been read, the address counter wraps around to 00h for the next byte and reading continues until the controller sends a Reset Pulse.

## MEMORY FUNCTION FLOW CHART Figure 6

<!-- image -->

## COPY SCRATCHPAD [55h]

After the data stored in the scratchpad has been verified, the controller may send the Copy Scratchpad command followed  by  a  validation  key  of  A5h  to  transfer  data  from  the  scratchpad  to  the  EEPROM memory. This command always copies the data of the entire scratchpad. Therefore, if one desires to change only a few bytes of the EEPROM data, the scratchpad should contain a copy of the latest EEPROM data before  the  Write  Scratchpad  and  Copy  Scratchpad  commands  are  issued.  After  this  command  and  the validation key are issued, the data line must be held above VPUPmin for at least tPROG.

## READ MEMORY [F0h]

The Read Memory command is used to read a portion or all of the EEPROM data memory and to copy the entire data memory into the scratchpad to prepare for changing a few bytes. To copy data from the data memory to the scratchpad and to read it, the controller must issue the read memory command followed by the  1-byte  starting  address  of  the  data  to  be  read  from  the  scratchpad.  The  DS2430A  automatically increments the address after every byte read by the controller. After the data of address 1Fh has been read, the address counter wraps around to 00h for the next byte and reading continues until the controller sends a Reset Pulse. If one intends to copy the entire data memory to the scratchpad without reading data, a starting address is not required; the controller may send a Reset Pulse immediately following the command code.

## MEMORY FUNCTION FLOW CHART Figure 6 (continued)

<!-- image -->

## WRITE APPLICATION REGISTER [99h]

This command is essentially the same as the Write Scratchpad command, but it addresses the 64-bit register scratchpad. After issuing the command code, the controller must provide a 1-byte address, followed by the data to be written. The DS2430A automatically increments the address after every byte it receives. After receiving the data byte for address 07h, the address counter wraps around to 00h for the next byte and writing continues until the controller sends a Reset Pulse. The Write Application Register command can be used as long as the application register has not yet been locked. If issued for a device with the application register locked, the data written to the register scratchpad will be lost.

## READ STATUS REGISTER [66h]

The  status  register  is  a  means  for  the  controller  to  find  out  whether  the  application  register  has  been programmed and locked. After issuing the read status register command, the controller must provide the validation key 00h before receiving status information. The two least significant bits of the 8-bit status register are 0 if the application register was programmed and locked; all other bits always read 1. The controller may finish the read status command by sending a Reset Pulse at any time.

## MEMORY FUNCTION FLOW CHART Figure 6 (continued)

<!-- image -->

## READ APPLICATION REGISTER [C3h]

This command is used to read the application register or the register scratchpad. As long as the application register is not yet locked, the DS2430A transmits data from the register scratchpad. After the application register is locked the DS2430A transmits data from the application register, making the register scratchpad inaccessible  for  reading.  The  contents  of  the  status  register  indicate  where  the  data  received  with  this command came from. After issuing the Read Application Register command, the controller must provide the  1-byte  starting  address  from  where  data  is  to  be  read.  The  DS2430A  automatically  increments  the address after every byte read by the controller. After the data at address 07h has been read, the address counter wraps around to 00h for the next byte and reading continues until the controller sends a Reset Pulse.

## COPY &amp; LOCK APPLICATION REGISTER [5Ah]

After the data stored in the register scratchpad has been verified the controller may send the Copy &amp; Lock Application Register command followed by a validation key of A5h to transfer the contents of the entire register scratchpad to the application register and to simultaneously write-protect it. The controller may cancel this command by sending a Reset Pulse instead of the validation key. After the validation key is transmitted,  the  data  line  must  be  held  above  VPUPmin  for  at  least  tPROG.  Once  tPROG  has  expired,  the application register will contain the data of the register scratchpad. Further write accesses to the application register will be denied. The Copy &amp; Lock Application Register command can only be executed once.

## 1-Wire BUS SYSTEM

The 1-Wire bus is a system that has a single bus controller and one or more peripherals. In all instances, the DS2430A is a peripheral device. The bus controller is typically a microcontroller. The discussion of this bus system is broken down into three topics: hardware configuration, transaction sequence, and 1-Wire signaling (signal type and timing). The 1-Wire protocol defines bus transactions in terms of the bus state during specified time slots that are initiated on the falling edge of sync pulses from the bus controller.

## Hardware Configuration

The 1-Wire bus has only a single line by definition; it is important that each device on the bus be able to drive it at the appropriate time. To facilitate this, each device attached to the 1-Wire bus must have open drain connection or three-state outputs. The 1-Wire port of the DS2430A is open drain with an internal circuit  equivalent  to  that  shown  in  Figure  7.  A  multidrop  bus  consists  of  a  1-Wire  bus  with  multiple peripherals  attached.  The  DS2430A  communicates  at  regular  1-Wire  speed,  14.3kbits  per  second,  and requires a pullup resistor as shown in Figure 7. The idle state for the 1-Wire bus is high. If for any reason a transaction needs to be suspended, the bus MUST be left in the idle state if the transaction is to resume. If this does not occur and the bus is left low for more than 120µs, one or more of the devices on the bus may be reset.

## HARDWARE CONFIGURATION Figure 7

<!-- image -->

Note: Depending  on  the  1-Wire  communication  speed  and  the  bus  characteristics,  the  optimal  pullup resistor value will be in the 0.3k Ω to 2.2k Ω range. To write to a single device, a RPUPmax resistor and VPUP of at least 4.0V is sufficient. For writing multiple DS2430As simultaneously or operation at low VPUP, the resistor should be bypassed by a low-impedance pullup to VPUP while the device copies the scratchpad to EEPROM.

## ROM FUNCTIONS FLOW CHART Figure 8

<!-- image -->

## Transaction Sequence

The sequence for accessing the DS2430A via the 1-Wire port is as follows:

-  Initialization
-  ROM Function Command
-  Memory Function Command
-  Transaction/Data

## INITIALIZATION

All transactions on the 1-Wire bus begin with an initialization sequence. The initialization sequence consists of  a  Reset  Pulse  transmitted  by  the  bus  controller  followed  by  a  Presence  Pulse(s)  transmitted  by  the peripheral(s).

The Presence Pulse lets the bus controller know that the DS2430A is on the bus and is ready to operate. For more details, see the 1-Wire Signaling section.

## ROM FUNCTION COMMANDS

Once the bus controller has detected a presence pulse, it can issue one of the four ROM function commands. All ROM function commands are 8 bits long. A list of these commands follows (see the flowchart in Figure 8):

## Read ROM [33h]

This command allows the bus controller to read the DS2430A's 8-bit family code, 48-bit serial number, and 8-bit CRC. This command can be used only if there is a single DS2430A on the bus. If more than one peripheral is present on the bus, a data collision will occur when all peripherals try to transmit at the same time (open drain produces a wired-AND result). The resultant family code and 48-bit serial number usually result in a mismatch of the CRC.

## Match ROM [55h]

The Match ROM command, followed by a 64-bit ROM sequence, allows the bus controller to address a specific DS2430A on a multidrop bus. Only the DS2430A that exactly matches the 64-bit ROM sequence will respond to the subsequent memory function command. All peripherals that do not match the 64-bit ROM sequence will wait for a Reset Pulse. This command can be used with a single or multiple devices on the bus.

## Skip ROM [CCh]

This command can save time in a single-drop bus system by allowing the bus controller to access the memory functions without providing the 64-bit ROM code. If more than one peripheral is present on the bus and a read command is issued following the Skip ROM command, data collision will occur on the bus as multiple peripherals transmit simultaneously (open-drain pulldowns produces a wired-AND result).

## Search ROM [F0h]

When a system is initially brought up, the bus controller might not know the number of devices on the 1Wire bus or their 64-bit ROM codes. The Search ROM command allows the bus controller to use a process of elimination to identify the 64-bit ROM codes of all peripheral devices on the bus. The Search ROM process is the repetition of a simple, three-step routine: read a bit, read the complement of the bit, then write

the desired value of that bit. The bus controller performs this simple, three-step routine on each bit of the ROM.

After one complete pass, the bus controller knows the contents of the ROM in one device. The remaining number of devices and their ROM codes may be identified by additional passes. Refer to the 1-Wire Search Algorithm application note for a comprehensive discussion of a search ROM, including an actual example.

## 1-Wire Signaling

The DS2430A requires strict  protocols  to  insure  data  integrity.  The  protocol  consists  of  four  types  of signaling on one line: Reset Sequence with Reset Pulse and Presence Pulse, Write-0, Write-1 and ReadData. All these signals (except Presence Pulse) are initiated by the bus controller.

To get from idle to active, the voltage on the 1-Wire line needs to fall from VPUP below the threshold VTL. To get from active to idle, the voltage needs to rise from VILMAX past the threshold VTH. The time it takes for the voltage to make this rise is seen in Figure 9 as ε , and its duration depends on the pullup resistor (RPUP) used and the capacitance of the 1-Wire network attached. The voltage VILMAX is relevant for the DS2430A when determining a logical level, not triggering any events.

Figure 9 shows the initialization sequence required to begin any communication with the DS2430A. A Reset Pulse followed by a Presence Pulse indicates the DS2430A is ready to receive data, given the correct ROM and memory function command. If the bus controller uses slew-rate control on the falling edge, it must pull down the line for tRSTL + tF to compensate for the edge.

After the bus controller has released the line it goes into Receive mode. Now the 1-Wire bus is pulled to VPUP through the pullup resistor. When the threshold VTH is crossed, the DS2340A waits for tPDH and then transmits a Presence Pulse by pulling the line low for tPDL. To detect a Presence Pulse, the controller must test the logical state of the 1-Wire line at tMSP. The tRSTH window must be at least the sum of tPDHMAX, tPDLMAX, and tRECMIN. Immediately after tRSTH is expired, the DS2430A is ready for data communication.

## INITIALIZATION PROCEDURE 'RESET AND PRESENCE PULSES' Figure 9

<!-- image -->

## Read/Write Time Slots

Data communication with the DS2430A takes place in time slots, which carry a single bit each. Write time slots  transport  data  from  bus  controller  to  peripheral.  Read  time  slots  transfer  data  from  peripheral  to controller. Figure 10 illustrates the definitions of the write and read time slots.

All communication begins with the controller pulling the data line low. As the voltage on the 1-Wire line falls below the threshold VTL, the DS2430A starts its internal timing generator that determines when the data line is sampled during a write time slot and how long data is valid during a read time slot.

## Controller-to-Peripheral

For a Write-1 time slot, the voltage on the data line must have crossed the VTH threshold before the Write-1 low time tW1LMAX is expired. For a Write-0 time slot, the voltage on the data line must stay below the VTH threshold until the Write-0 low time tW0LMIN is expired. For the most reliable communication, the voltage on the data line should not exceed VILMAX during the entire tW0L or tW1L window. After the VTH threshold has been crossed, the DS2430A needs a recovery time tREC before it is ready for the next time slot.

## READ/WRITE TIMING DIAGRAM Figure 10

## Write-1 Time Slot

<!-- image -->

## Write-0 Time Slot

<!-- image -->

## Read-Data Time Slot

<!-- image -->

## Peripheral-to-Controller

A Read-data time slot begins like a Write-1 time slot. The voltage on the data line must remain below VTL until the read low time tRL is expired. During the tRL window, when responding with a 0, the DS2430A starts pulling the data line low; its internal timing generator determines when this pulldown ends and the voltage starts rising again. When responding with a 1, the DS2430A does not hold the data line low at all, and the voltage starts rising as soon as tRL is over.

The sum of tRL + δ (rise time) on one side and the internal timing generator of the DS2430A on the other side define the controller sampling window (tMSRMIN to tMSRMAX) in which the controller must perform a read from the data line. For the most reliable communication, tRL should be as short as permissible, and the controller should read close to but no later than tMSRMAX. After reading from the data line, the controller must wait until tSLOT is expired. This guarantees sufficient recovery time tREC for the DS2430A to get ready for the next time slot. Note that tREC specified herein applies only to a single DS2430A attached to a 1-Wire line. For multidevice configurations, tREC must be extended to accommodate the additional 1-Wire device input capacitance. Alternatively, an interface that performs active pullup during the 1-Wire recovery time such as the DS2482-x00 or DS2480B 1-Wire line drivers can be used.

## IMPROVED NETWORK BEHAVIOR (SWITCHPOINT HYSTERESIS)

In a 1-Wire environment, line termination is possible only during transients controlled by the bus controller (1-Wire driver). 1-Wire networks, therefore, are susceptible to noise of various origins. Depending on the physical size and topology of the network, reflections from end points and branch points can add up, or cancel  each  other  to  some  extent.  Such  reflections  are  visible  as  glitches  or  ringing  on  the  1-Wire communication line. Noise coupled onto the 1-Wire line from external sources can also result in signal glitching. A glitch during the rising edge of a time slot can cause a peripheral device to lose synchronization with the controller and, consequently, result in a Search ROM command coming to a dead end or cause a device-specific function command to abort. For better performance in network applications, the DS2430A uses a new 1-Wire front end, which makes it less sensitive to noise.

The 1-Wire front end of the DS2430A differs from traditional peripheral devices in three characteristics.

- 1) There is additional low-pass filtering in the circuit that detects the falling edge at the beginning of a time slot. This reduces the sensitivity to high-frequency noise.
- 2) There is a hysteresis at the low-to-high switching threshold VTH. If a negative glitch crosses VTH but does not go below VTH - VHY, it will not be recognized (Figure 11, Case A).
- 3) There is a time window specified by the rising edge hold-off time tREH during which glitches are ignored, even if they extend below VTH - VHY threshold (Figure 11, Case B, tGL &lt; tREH). Deep voltage droops or glitches that appear late after crossing the VTH threshold and extend beyond the tREH window cannot be filtered out and are taken as the beginning of a new time slot (Figure 11, Case C, tGL ≥ tREH).

Devices that have the parameters VHY, and tREH specified in their electrical characteristics use the improved 1-Wire front end.

## NOISE SUPPRESSION SCHEME Figure 11

<!-- image -->

## MEMORY FUNCTION EXAMPLE

Example: Write 2 data bytes to data memory locations 0006h and 0007h. Read entire data memory.

| CONTROLLER MODE   | DATA (LSB FIRST)   | COMMENTS                                      |
|-------------------|--------------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| TX                | Reset              | Reset pulse (480µs to 960µs)                  |
| RX                | Presence           | Presence pulse                                |
| TX                | CCh                | Issue 'Skip ROM' command                      |
| TX                | 0Fh                | Issue 'Write Scratchpad' command              |
| TX                | 06h                | Start address = 06h                           |
| TX                | <2 Data Bytes>     | Write 2 bytes of data to scratchpad           |
| TX                | Reset              | Reset pulse                                   |
| RX                | Presence           | Presence pulse                                |
| TX                | CCh                | Issue 'Skip ROM' command                      |
| TX                | AAh                | Issue 'Read Scratchpad' command               |
| TX                | 06h                | Start address = 06h                           |
| RX                | <2 Data Bytes>     | Read scratchpad data and verify               |
| TX                | Reset              | Reset pulse                                   |
| RX                | Presence           | Presence pulse                                |
| TX                | CCh                | Issue 'Skip ROM' command                      |
| TX                | 55h                | Issue 'Copy Scratchpad' command               |
| TX                | A5h                | Validation key                                |
| TX                | <Data Line High>   | Data line must be above V PUPmin for t PROG . |
| TX                | Reset              | Reset pulse                                   |
| RX                | Presence           | Presence pulse                                |
| TX                | CCh                | Issue 'Skip ROM' command                      |
| TX                | F0h                | Issue 'Read Memory' command                   |
| TX                | 00h                | Start address = 00h                           |
| RX                | <32 Bytes>         | Read EEPROM data page                         |
| TX                | Reset              | Reset pulse                                   |
| RX                | Presence           | Presence pulse                                |

## ABSOLUTE MAXIMUM RATINGS

Voltage Range on DATA to Ground

DATA Sink Current

Operating Temperature Range

Junction Temperature

Storage Temperature Range

Lead Temperature (soldering, 10s)

Soldering Temperature (reflow)

TSOC

TO-92

-0.5V to +6.0V

20mA

-40°C to +85°C

+150°C

-55°C to +125°C

+300°C

+260°C

+250°C

Stresses beyond those listed under 'Absolute Maximum Ratings' may cause permanent damage to the device. These are stress ratings only, and functional operation of the device at these or any other conditions beyond those indicated in the operational sections of the specifications is not implied. Exposure to the absolute maximum rating conditions for extended periods may affect device reliability.

## ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS

(TA = -40 ° C to +85 ° C, unless otherwise noted.) (Note 1)

| PARAMETER                                   | SYMBOL                                      | CONDITIONS                                  | MIN                                         | TYP                                         | MAX                                         | UNITS                                       |
|---------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|
| IO PIN GENERAL DATA                         | IO PIN GENERAL DATA                         | IO PIN GENERAL DATA                         | IO PIN GENERAL DATA                         | IO PIN GENERAL DATA                         | IO PIN GENERAL DATA                         | IO PIN GENERAL DATA                         |
| 1-Wire Pull-up Voltage                      | V PUP                                       | (Note 2)                                    | 2.8                                         |                                             | 5.25                                        | V                                           |
| 1-Wire Pull-up Resistance                   | R PUP                                       | (Notes 2, 3)                                | 0.3                                         |                                             | 2.2                                         | k Ω                                         |
| Input Capacitance                           | C IO                                        | (Notes 4, 5)                                | 2000                                        | 2000                                        | 2000                                        | pF                                          |
| Input Load Current                          | I L                                         | DATA pin at V PUP                           | 0.05                                        |                                             | 5                                           | µA                                          |
| High-to-Low Switching Threshold             | V TL                                        | (Notes 5, 6, 7)                             | 0.46                                        |                                             | V PUP - 1.8                                 | V                                           |
| Input Low Voltage                           | V IL                                        | (Notes 2, 8)                                |                                             |                                             | 0.5                                         | V                                           |
| Low-to-High Switching Threshold             | V TH                                        | (Notes 5, 6, 9)                             | 1                                           |                                             | V PUP - 1.1                                 | V                                           |
| Switching Hysteresis                        | V HY                                        | (Notes 5, 6, 10)                            | 0.21                                        |                                             | 1.7                                         | V                                           |
| Output Low Voltage                          | V OL                                        | I OL 4mA (Note 11)                          |                                             |                                             | 0.4                                         | V                                           |
| Recovery Time                               | t REC                                       | R PUP = 2.2k Ω (Notes 2, 12)                | 5                                           |                                             |                                             | µs                                          |
| Rising-Edge Hold-off Time                   | t REH                                       | (Notes 5, 13)                               | 0.5                                         |                                             | 5                                           | µs                                          |
| Time Slot Duration                          | t SLOT                                      | (Notes 2, 14)                               | 65                                          |                                             |                                             | µs                                          |
| IO PIN, 1-Wire RESET, PRESENCE DETECT CYCLE | IO PIN, 1-Wire RESET, PRESENCE DETECT CYCLE | IO PIN, 1-Wire RESET, PRESENCE DETECT CYCLE | IO PIN, 1-Wire RESET, PRESENCE DETECT CYCLE | IO PIN, 1-Wire RESET, PRESENCE DETECT CYCLE | IO PIN, 1-Wire RESET, PRESENCE DETECT CYCLE | IO PIN, 1-Wire RESET, PRESENCE DETECT CYCLE |
| Reset Low Time                              | t RSTL                                      | (Note 2)                                    | 480                                         |                                             | 960                                         | µs                                          |
| Presence Detect High Time                   | t PDH                                       |                                             | 15                                          |                                             | 60                                          | µs                                          |
| Presence Detect Low Time                    | t PDL                                       |                                             | 60                                          |                                             | 240                                         | µs                                          |
| Presence Detect Sample Time                 | t MSP                                       | (Notes 2, 15)                               | 60                                          |                                             | 75                                          | µs                                          |
| IO PIN, 1-Wire WRITE                        | IO PIN, 1-Wire WRITE                        | IO PIN, 1-Wire WRITE                        | IO PIN, 1-Wire WRITE                        | IO PIN, 1-Wire WRITE                        | IO PIN, 1-Wire WRITE                        | IO PIN, 1-Wire WRITE                        |
| Write-0 Low Time                            | t W0L                                       | (Notes 2, 16)                               | 60                                          |                                             | 120 - ε                                     | µs                                          |
| Write-1 Low Time                            | t W1L                                       | (Notes 2, 16)                               | 1                                           |                                             | 15 - ε                                      | µs                                          |
| IO PIN, 1-Wire READ                         | IO PIN, 1-Wire READ                         | IO PIN, 1-Wire READ                         | IO PIN, 1-Wire READ                         | IO PIN, 1-Wire READ                         | IO PIN, 1-Wire READ                         | IO PIN, 1-Wire READ                         |
| Read Low Time                               | t RL                                        | (Notes 2, 17)                               | 1                                           |                                             | 15 - δ                                      | µs                                          |
| Read Sample Time                            | t MSR                                       | (Notes 2, 17)                               | t RL + δ                                    |                                             | 15                                          | µs                                          |

## ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS (continued)

(TA = -40 ° C to +85 ° C, unless otherwise noted.) (Note 1)

| EEPROM                                        | EEPROM   | EEPROM                       | EEPROM   | EEPROM   |
|-----------------------------------------------|----------|------------------------------|----------|----------|
| Programming Current                           | I PROG   | (Notes 5, 18)                | 0.5      | mA       |
| Programming Time                              | t PROG   | (Note 19)                    | 10       | ms       |
| Write/Erase Cycles (Endurance) (Notes 20, 21) | N CY     | At 25°C At 85°C (worst case) | 200k 50k |         |
| Data Retention (Notes 22, 23, 24)             | t DR     | At 85°C (worst case)         | 40       | years    |

Note 1: Limits are 100% production tested at TA = +25°C and/or TA = +85°C. Limits over the operating temperature range and relevant supply voltage range are guaranteed by design and characterization. Typical values are not guaranteed.

Note 2: System requirement.

Note 3: Maximum allowable pullup resistance is a function of the number of 1-Wire devices in the system and 1-Wire recovery times. The specified value here applies to systems with only one device and with the minimum tREC. For more heavily loaded systems, an active pullup such as that found in the DS2482-x00, DS2480B, or DS2490 may be required. If longer tREC is used, higher RPUP values may be able to be tolerated.

Note 4: Maximum value represents the internal parasite capacitance when VPUP is first applied. If a 2.2k Ω resistor is used to pull up the data line, 2.5µs after VPUP has been applied the parasite capacitance will not affect normal communications.

- Note 5: Guaranteed by design, characterization and/or simulation only. Not production tested.

Note 6: VTL, VTH, and VHY  are a function of the internal supply voltage which is itself a function of VPUP, RPUP, 1-Wire timing, and capacitive loading on DATA. Lower VPUP, higher RPUP, shorter tREC, and heavier capacitive loading all lead to lower values of VTL, VTH, and VHY.

- Note 7: Voltage below which, during a falling edge on DATA, a logic 0 is detected.
- Note 8: The voltage on DATA needs to be less or equal to VIL(MAX) at all times the controller is driving DATA to a logic0 level.

Note 9: Voltage above which, during a rising edge on DATA, a logic 1 is detected.

Note 10: After VTH is crossed during a rising edge on DATA, the voltage on DATA has to drop by at least VHY to be detected as logic '0'.

- Note 11: The I-V characteristic is linear for voltages less than 1V.
- Note 12: Applies to a single device attached to a 1-Wire line.
- Note 13: The earliest recognition of a negative edge is possible at tREH after VTH has been reached on the preceding rising edge.
- Note 14: Defines maximum possible bit rate. Equal to 1/(tW0L(min) + tREC(min)).
- Note 15: Interval after tRSTL during which a bus controller is guaranteed to sample a logic-0 on DATA if there is a DS2430A present. Minimum limit is tPDH(max); maximum limit is tPDH(min) + tPDL(min).

Note 16: ε in Figure 10 represents the time required for the pullup circuitry to pull the voltage on DATA up from VIL to VTH. The actual maximum duration for the controller to pull the line low is tW1Lmax + tF and tW0Lmax + tF respectively.

Note 17: δ in Figure 10 represents the time required for the pullup circuitry to pull the voltage on DATA up from VIL to the input high threshold of the bus controller. The actual maximum duration for the controller to pull the line low is tRLmax + tF.

- Note 18: Current drawn from DATA during the EEPROM programming interval. The pullup circuit on DATA during the programming interval should be such that the voltage at DATA is greater than or equal to VPUPMIN. If VPUP in the system is close to VPUPMIN, a low-impedance bypass of RPUP, which can be activated during programming, may need to be added.

Note 19: Interval begins tREHmax after the trailing rising edge on DATA for the last time slot of the validation key for a valid copy sequence. Interval ends once the device's self-timed EEPROM programming cycle is complete and the current drawn by the device has returned from IPROG to IL.

Note 20: Write-cycle endurance is degraded as TA increases.

Note 21: Not 100% production-tested; guaranteed by reliability monitor sampling.

Note 22: Data retention is degraded as TA increases.

- Note 23: Guaranteed by 100% production test at elevated temperature for a shorter time; equivalence of this production test to data sheet limit at operating temperature range is established by reliability testing.
- Note 24: EEPROM writes can become nonfunctional after the data-retention time is exceeded. Long-term storage at elevated temperatures is not recommended; the device can lose its write capability after 10 years at +125°C or 40 years at +85°C.

## PACKAGE INFORMATION

For the latest package outline information and land patterns (footprints), go to www.analog.com/en/resources/packaging-quality-symbols-footprints/package-index.html . Note that a '+', '#', or '-' in the package code indicates RoHS status only. Package drawings may show a different suffix character, but the drawing pertains to the package regardless of RoHS status.

| PACKAGE TYPE   | PACKAGE CODE   | OUTLINE NO.   | LAND PATTERN NO.   |
|----------------|----------------|---------------|--------------------|
| 3 TO-92 (Bulk) | Q3+1           | 21-0248       | -                  |
| 3 TO-92 (T&R)  | Q3+4           | 21-0250       | -                  |
| 6 TSOC         | D6+1           | 21-0382       | 90-0321            |

## REVISION HISTORY

| REVISION DATE   | DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | PAGES CHANGED              |
|-----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------|
| 4/3/95          | Initial release                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | -                          |
| 8/26/96         | Changed 'C-lead' package to 'TSOC' package. Deleted V IHmax specification value. Note 'Under certain low voltage conditions V ILMAX may have to be reduced to as much as 0.5V to always guarantee a presence pulse.' added to V IL specification, changed V CC to V PUP in Note 6.                                                                                                                                                            | Various                    |
| 3/26/97         | Changed 'Touch Memory' to 'iButton'.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Various                    |
| 12/8/98         | Programming time changed from 100ms to 10ms, change V DD to V PUP , revised note below Figure 7, programming current changed from 600µA to 500µA, Q OP removed from EC table, deleted from Note 5 'and will remain valid for 14µs minimum (15µs total from falling edge on 1-Wire bus).' Endurance added to EC table with note 'The Copy Scratchpad takes 10ms maximum, during which the voltage on the 1-Wire bus must not fall below 2.8V.' | Various                    |
| 1/20/99         | Chip scale package added to ordering information                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | 1                          |
| 5/20/99         | Deleted duplicate t PDL and contradicting t PROG spec from EC table                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | 15                         |
| 10/21/99        | Template conversion, style changes (capitalization of command names, 'Write-one' to 'Write-1', 'Write-zero' to 'Write-0')                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | All                        |
| 2/2/02          | Part number corrections, style corrections, note below figure 7 revised explaining the appropriate R PUP range, corrections in the Memory Functions Example (removed Read Memory section at the beginning), changed solder spec from 260°C to JEDEC reference, added notes 11, 12, 13 to EC table, changed t RSTLmax from 5000µs to 960µs, revised text of EC table note 8.                                                                   | Various                    |
| 11/1/05         | NRFND watermark added                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | All                        |
| 1/16/07         | Lead free part numbers added; added flip chip graphic with bump electrical assignment, orientation mark and marking; Added flip chip 56-level drawing number, changed "Chip Scale" name to "Flip Chip"; replaced references to the Book of iButton Standards with the corresponding application notes.                                                                                                                                        | Various                    |
| 8/8/07          | Note on formed leads for TO-92 TRL and URL to 56-G0006-003 added, I Lmin and I Lmax spec values added to EC table. Data retention added to EC table.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | 1, 15                      |
| 4/10            | Ordering information for standard and flip chip versions deleted, pin assignment for flip chip version deleted, data rate changed from 16.3kbps to 15.3kbps. Style corrections and minor text updates for clarification. New 1-Wire front end, improved EEPROM and related EC table with notes. Package information section added.                                                                                                            | 1 Various 12-14, 16- 17 18 |
| 2/12            | Reformatted the Ordering Information , deleted the reference to the UCSP package.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | 1                          |
| 2/12            | Revised EC table notes 1 and 18; added the Land Pattern No. to the Package Information section.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | 17, 18                     |
| 9/22            | Added DS2430AB part number and related changes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | 1-4, 7, 8, 16-18           |
| 3/26            | Removed DS2430AB part number and related changes; removed NRND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | All                        |

Information furnished by Analog Devices is believed to be accurate and reliable. However, no responsibility is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

©  2026  Analog  Devices,  Inc.  All  rights  reserved.  Trademarks  and  registered  trademarks  are  the  property  of  their  respective  owners. One  Analog  Way,  Wilmington,  MA  01887  U.S.A.  |  Tel:  781.329.4700  |  ©  2026  Analog  Devices,  Inc.  All  rights  reserved.