<!-- lastmod 2025-12-22 -->
<!-- image -->

## BENEFITS AND FEATURES

- Easily Add Traceability and Relevant Information to Any Individual System
- o 1k-Bit EPROM with Page-Level Write Protection and Guaranteed Unique 64-Bit ROM ID Chip for Absolute Traceability
- o 1024 Bits Electrically Programmable Read Only Memory (EPROM)
- o Unique, Factory-Lasered and Tested 64-Bit Registration Number (8-Bit Family Code + 48-Bit Serial Number + 8-Bit CRC Tester)
- o EPROM Partitioned into Four 256-Bit Pages for Randomly Accessing Packetized Data
- o Each Memory Page Can Be Permanently WriteProtected to Prevent Tampering
- o Device is an Add Only Memory Where Additional Data Can Be Programmed into EPROM Without Disturbing Existing Data
- o Architecture Allows Software to Patch Data by Superseding an Old Page in Favor of a Newly Programmed Page
- o 8-Bit Family Code Specifies DS2502 Communications Requirements to Reader
- Minimalist 1-Wire Interface Lowers Cost and Interface Complexity
- o Reduces Control, Address, Data, Power, and Programming Signals to a Single Data Pin
- o Directly Connects to a Single Port Pin of a Microprocessor and Communicates at up to 16.3kb Per Second
- o Built-In Multidrop Controller Ensures Compatibility with Other 1-Wire Net Products
- o Presence Pulse Acknowledges When the Reader First Applies Voltage
- o Low Cost TO-92, SFN, or 8-Pin SO, SOT-23 (3 Pin), TSOC and WLP Surface Mount Package
- Wide Voltage and Temperature Operating Ranges Provide Robust System Performance
- o Reads Over Voltage Range of 2.8V to 6.0V at 40°C to +85°C
- o Zero Standby Power Required
- o Programs at 11.5V to 12.0V from -40°C to +50°C

## DS2502 1Kb Add-Only Memory

## PIN ASSIGNMENT

<!-- image -->

NC

NC

NC

NC

SFN (APPROX. 6.0mm x 6.0mm x 0.9mm)

NOTE: THE  SFN  PACKAGE  IS  QUALIFIED  FOR  ELECTRO-MECHANICAL CONTACT APPLICATIONS ONLY, NOT FOR SOLDERING. FOR MORE INFORMATION, REFER TO APPLICATION NOTE 4132: ATTACHMENT METHODS FOR THE ELECTRO-MECHANICAL SFN PACKAG E.

## ORDERING INFORMATION

| PART        | TEMP RANGE     | PIN-PACKAGE                       |
|-------------|----------------|-----------------------------------|
| DS2502+     | -40°C to +85°C | 3 TO-92 (straight leads)          |
| DS2502+T&R  | -40°C to +85°C | 3 TO-92 (formed leads, 2k pieces) |
| DS2502G+T&R | -40°C to +85°C | 2 SFN (2.5k pieces)               |
| DS2502P+    | -40°C to +85°C | 6 TSOC                            |
| DS2502P+T&R | -40°C to +85°C | 6 TSOC (4k pieces)                |
| DS2502R+T&R | -40°C to +85°C | 3 SOT-23 (3k pieces)              |
| DS2502S+    | -40°C to +85°C | 8 SO                              |
| DS2502S+T&R | -40°C to +85°C | 8 SO (2.5k pieces)                |
| DS2502X1+   | -40°C to +85°C | 4 WLP (10k pieces)                |

T&amp;R = Tape and reel.

## DESCRIPTION

The  DS2502  1Kb  Add-Only  Memory  identifies  and  stores  relevant  information  about  the  product  to which it is associated. This lot- or product-specific information can be accessed with minimal interfacefor example, a single port pin of a microcontroller. The DS2502 consists of a factory-lasered registration number that includes a unique 48-bit serial number, an 8-bit CRC, and an 8-bit Family Code (09h) plus 1Kb of EPROM which is user-programmable. The power to program and read the DS2502 is derived entirely from the 1-Wire  communication line.

Data is transferred serially via the 1-Wire protocol which requires only a single data lead and a ground return. The entire device can be programmed and then write-protected if desired. Alternatively, the part may be programmed multiple times with new data being appended to, but not overwriting, existing data with  each  subsequent  programming  of  the  device.  Note:  Individual  bits  can  be  changed  only  from  a logical 1 to a logical 0, never from a logical 0 to a logical 1. A provision is also included for indicating that a certain page or pages of data are no longer valid and have been replaced with new or updated data that is now residing at an alternate page address. This page address redirection allows software to patch data and enhance the flexibility of the device as a stand-alone database.  The 48-bit serial number that is factory-lasered  into  each  DS2502  provides  a  guaranteed  unique  identity  which  allows  for  absolute traceability.  The  familiar  TO-92  or  SOIC  or  TSOC  packages  provide  a  compact  enclosure  that  allows standard  assembly  equipment  to  handle  the  device  easily  for  attachment  to  printed  circuit  boards  or wiring. Typical applications include storage of calibration constants, maintenance records, asset tracking, product revision status, and access codes.

## OVERVIEW

The block diagram in Figure 1 shows the relationships between the major control and memory sections of the DS2502. The DS2502 has three main data components: 1) 64-bit lasered ROM, 2) 1024-bit EPROM, and 3) EPROM Status Bytes. The device derives its power for read operations entirely from the 1-Wire communication line by storing energy on an internal capacitor during periods of time when the signal line is high and continues to operate off of this 'parasite' power source during the low times of the 1-Wire line  until  it  returns  high  to  replenish  the  parasite  (capacitor)  supply.  During  programming,  1-Wire communication  occurs  at  normal  voltage  levels  and  then  is  pulsed  momentarily  to  the  programming voltage to cause the selected EPROM bits to be programmed. The 1-Wire line must be able to provide 12 volts  and  10  milliamperes  to  adequately  program  the  EPROM  portions  of  the  part.  Whenever programming  voltages  are  present  on  the  1-Wire  line  a  special  high  voltage  detect  circuit  within  the DS2502 generates an internal logic signal to indicate this condition.  The hierarchical structure of the 1Wire protocol is  shown  in  Figure  2.  The  bus  master  must  first  provide  one  of  the  six  ROM  Function Commands, 1) Read ROM, 2) Match ROM, 3) Search ROM, 4) Skip ROM.  These commands operate on the 64-bit lasered ROM portion of each device and can singulate a specific device if many are present on

the 1-Wire line as well as indicate to the bus master how many and what types of devices are present. The protocol required for these ROM Function Commands is described in Figure 9.  After a ROM Function Command is successfully executed, the memory functions that operate on the EPROM portions of the DS2502  become  accessible  and  the  bus  master  may  issue  any  one  of  the  five  Memory  Function Commands specific to the  DS2502  to  read  or  program  the  various  data  fields.  The  protocol  for  these Memory Function Commands is described in Figure 5. All data is read and written least significant bit first.

## 64-BIT LASERED ROM

Each DS2502 contains a unique ROM code that is 64 bits long. The first 8 bits are a 1-Wire family code. The next 48 bits are a unique serial number. The last 8 bits are a CRC of the first 56 bits. (See Figure 3). The 64-bit ROM and ROM Function Control section allow the DS2502 to operate as a 1-Wire device and follow the 1-Wire protocol detailed in the section '1-Wire Bus System.' The memory functions required to  read  and  program  the  EPROM  sections  of  the  DS2502  are  not  accessible  until  the  ROM  function protocol has been satisfied. This protocol is described in the ROM functions flow chart (Figure 9). The 1Wire bus master must first provide one of four ROM function commands: 1) Read ROM, 2) Match ROM, 3) Search ROM, or 4) Skip ROM. After a ROM function sequence has been successfully executed, the bus master may then provide any one of the memory function commands specific to the DS2502 (Figure 6).

The 1-Wire CRC of the lasered ROM is generated using the polynomial X 8  + X 5 +  X 4 +  1.  Figure  4 shows  a  hardware  implementation  of  this  CRC  generator.  Additional  information  about  the  Maxim 1-Wire Cyclic Redundancy Check is available in Application Note 27 .  The  shift  register  acting  as  the CRC accumulator is initialized to 0. Then starting with the least significant bit of the family code, 1 bit at a time is shifted in. After the 8 th bit of the family code has been entered, then the serial number is entered. After the 48 th bit of the serial number has been entered, the shift register contains the CRC value. Shifting in the 8 bits of CRC should return the shift register to all 0s.

## DS2502 BLOCK DIAGRAM Figure 1

<!-- image -->

## HIERARCHICAL STRUCTURE FOR 1-WIRE PROTOCOL Figure 2

<!-- image -->

## 64-BIT LASERED ROM Figure 3

| 8-Bit CRC Code   | 8-Bit CRC Code   | 48-Bit Serial Number   | 48-Bit Serial Number   | 8-Bit Family Code (09h)   | 8-Bit Family Code (09h)   |
|------------------|------------------|------------------------|------------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------|
| MSB              | LSB              | MSB                    | LSB                    | MSB                       | LSB                       |

## 1-WIRE CRC GENERATOR Figure 4

<!-- image -->

## 1024-BITS EPROM

The memory map in Figure 5 shows the 1024-bit EPROM section of the DS2502 which is configured as four  pages  of  32  bytes  each.  The  8-bit  scratchpad  is  an  additional  register  that  acts  as  a  buffer  when programming the memory. Data is first written to the scratchpad and then verified by reading an 8-bit CRC from  the  DS2502  that  confirms  proper  receipt  of  the  data.  If  the  buffer  contents  are  correct,  a programming voltage should be applied and the byte of data will be written into the selected address in memory. This process ensures data integrity when programming the memory. The details for reading and programming the 1024-bit EPROM portion of the DS2502 are given in the Memory Function Commands section.

## EPROM STATUS BYTES

In addition to the 1024 bits of data memory the DS2502 provides 64 bits of Status Memory accessible with separate commands.

The  EPROM Status  Bytes  can  be  read  or  programmed  to  indicate  various  conditions  to  the  software interrogating the DS2502. The first byte of the EPROM Status Memory contain the Write Protect Page bits  which  inhibit  programming  of  the  corresponding  page  in  the  1024-bit  main  memory  area  if  the appropriate write protection bit is  programmed. Once a bit has been programmed in the Write Protect Page byte, the entire 32-byte page that corresponds to that bit can no longer be altered but may still be read.

The  next  4  bytes  of  the  EPROM  Status  Memory  contain  the  Page  Address  Redirection  Bytes,  which indicate if one or more of the pages of data in the 1024-bit EPROM section have been invalidated and redirected to the page address contained in the appropriate redirection byte. The hardware of the DS2502 makes no decisions based on the contents of the Page Address Redirection Bytes. These additional bytes of  Status  EPROM  technology,  bits  within  a  page  can  be  changed  from  a  logical  1  to  a  logical  0  by programming, but cannot be changed back. Therefore, it is not possible to simply rewrite a page if the data requires changing or updating, but with space permitting, an entire page of data can be redirected to another page within the DS2502 by writing the one's complement of the new page address into the Page Address Redirection Byte that corresponds to the original (replaced) page.

This architecture allows the user's software to make a 'data patch' to the EPROM by indicating that a particular page or pages should be replaced with those indicated in the Page Address Redirection Bytes.

If a Page Address Redirection Byte has an FFH value, the data in the main memory that corresponds to that  page  is  valid.  If  a  Page  Address  Redirection  Byte  has  some  other  hex  value,  the  data  in  the  page corresponding  to  that  redirection  byte  is  invalid,  and  the  valid  data  can  now  be  found  at  the  one's complement  of  the  page  address  indicated  by  the  hex  value  stored  in  the  associated  Page  Address Redirection Byte. A value of FDH in the redirection byte for page 1, for example, would indicate that the updated data is now in page 2.  The details for reading and programming the EPROM status memory portion of the DS2502 are given in the Memory Function Commands section.

## MEMORY FUNCTION COMMANDS

The  'Memory  Function  Flow  Chart'  (Figure  6)  describes  the  protocols  necessary  for  accessing  the various data fields within the DS2502. The Memory Function Control section, 8-bit scratchpad, and the Program Voltage Detect circuit combine to interpret the commands issued by the bus master and create the correct control signals within the device. A 3-byte protocol is issued by the bus master. It is comprised of a command byte to determine the type of operation and two address bytes to determine the specific starting  byte  location  within  a  data  field.  The  command  byte  indicates  if  the  device  is  to  be  read  or

written. Writing data involves not only issuing the correct command sequence by also providing a 12-volt programming voltage at the appropriate times. To execute a write sequence, a byte of data is first loaded into the scratchpad and then programmed into the selected address. Write sequences always occur a byte at a time. To execute a read sequence, the starting address is issued by the bus master and data is read from the part beginning at that initial location and continuing to the end of the selected data field or until a reset sequence is issued. All bits transferred to the DS2502 and received back by the bus master are sent least significant bit first.

## DS2502 MEMORY MAP Figure 5

<!-- image -->

## MEMORY FUNCTION FLOW CHART Figure 6

<!-- image -->

## MEMORY FUNCTION FLOW CHART Figure 6 (cont'd)

<!-- image -->

## MEMORY FUNCTION FLOW CHART Figure 6 (cont'd)

<!-- image -->

## READ MEMORY [F0h]

The Read Memory command is used to read data from the 1024-bit EPROM data field. The bus master follows the command byte with a 2-byte address (TA1=(T7:T0), TA2=(T15:T8)) that indicates a starting byte location within the data field. An 8-bit CRC of the command byte and address bytes is computed by the  DS2502  and  read  back  by  the  bus  master  to  confirm  that  the  correct  command  word  and  starting address were received. If the CRC read by the bus master is incorrect, a reset pulse must be issued and the entire sequence must be repeated. If the CRC received by the bus master is correct, the bus master issues read time slots and receives data from the DS2502 starting at the initial address and continuing until the end of the 1024-bit data field is reached or until a reset pulse is issued. If reading occurs through the end of memory space, the bus master may issue eight additional read time slots and the DS2502 will respond with a 8-bit CRC of all data bytes read from the initial starting byte through the last byte of memory. After the CRC is received by the bus master, any subsequent read time slots will appear as logical 1s until a reset pulse is issued. Any reads ended by a reset pulse prior to reaching the end of memory will not have the 8-bit CRC available.

Typically a 16-bit CRC would be stored with each page of data to ensure rapid, error-free data transfers that eliminate having to read a page multiple times to determine if the received data is correct or not. (See Application Note 114 for the recommended file structure.)  If CRC values are imbedded within the data, a reset pulse may be issued at the end of memory space during a Read Memory command.

## READ STATUS [Aah]

The  Read  Status  command  is  used  to  read  data  from  the  EPROM  Status  data  field.  The  bus  master follows the command byte with a 2-byte address (TA1=(T7:T0), TA2=(T15:T8)) that indicates a starting byte location within the data field. An 8-bit CRC of the command byte and address bytes is computed by the  DS2502  and  read  back  by  the  bus  master  to  confirm  that  the  correct  command  word  and  starting address were received. If the CRC read by the bus master is incorrect, a reset pulse must be issued and the entire sequence must be repeated. If the CRC received by the bus master is correct, the bus master issues read time slots and receives data from the DS2502 starting at the supplied address and continuing until the end of the EPROM Status data field is reached. At that point the bus master will receive an 8-bit CRC that  is  the  result  of  shifting  into  the  CRC  generator  all  of  the  data  bytes  from  the  initial  starting  byte through the final factory-programmed byte that contains the 00h value.

This feature is provided since the EPROM Status information may change over time making it impossible to  program the data once and include an accompanying CRC that will always be valid. Therefore, the Read Status command supplies a 8-bit CRC that is based on and always is consistent with the current data stored in the EPROM Status data field.

After the 8-bit CRC is read, the bus master will receive logical 1s from the DS2502 until a reset pulse is issued.  The Read Status command sequence can be ended at any point by issuing a reset pulse.

## READ DATA/GENERATE 8-BIT CRC [C3h]

The Read Data/Generate 8-bit CRC command is used to read data from the 1024-bit EPROM data field. The  bus  master  follows  the  command  byte  with  a  2-byte  address  (TA1=(T7:T0),  TA2=(T15:T8))  that indicates a starting byte location within the data field. An 8-bit CRC of the command byte and address bytes is computed by the DS2502 and read back by the bus master to confirm that the correct command word and starting address were received. If the CRC read by the bus master is incorrect, a reset pulse must  be  issued  and  the  entire  sequence  must  be  repeated.  If  the  CRC  received  by  the  bus  master  is correct, the bus master issues read time slots and receives data from the DS2502 starting at the initial address and continuing until the end of a 32-byte page is reached. At that point the bus master will send

eight  additional  read  time  slots  and  receive  an  8-bit  CRC  that  is  the  result  of  shifting  into  the  CRC generator all of the data bytes from the initial starting byte to the last byte of the current page. Once the 8bit CRC has been received, data is again read from the 1024-bit EPROM data field starting at the next page. This sequence will continue until the final page and its accompanying CRC are read by the bus master. Thus each page of data can be considered to be 33 bytes long: the 32 bytes of user-programmed EPROM data and an 8-bit CRC that gets generated automatically at the end of each page.

This type of read differs from the Read Memory command which simple reads each page until the end of address space is reached. The Read Memory command only generates an 8-bit CRC at the end of memory space that often might be ignored, since in many applications the user would store a 16-bit CRC with the data itself in each page of the 1024-bit EPROM data field at the time the page was programmed.

The Read Data/Generate 8-bit CRC command provides and alternate read capability for applications that are 'bit-oriented' rather than 'page-oriented' where the 1024-bit EPROM information may change over time  within  a  page  boundary  making  it  impossible  to  program  the  page  once  and  include  an accompanying CRC that will always be valid. Therefore, the Read Data/Generate 8-bit CRC command concludes  each  page  with  the  DS2502  generating  and  supplying  an  8-bit  CRC  that  is  based  on  and therefore is always consistent with the current data stored in each page of the 1024-bit EPROM data field. After the 8-bit CRC of the last page is read, the bus master will receive logical 1s from the DS2502 until a reset pulse is issued. The Read Data/Generate 8-Bit CRC command sequence can be exited at any point by issuing a reset pulse.

## WRITE MEMORY [0Fh]

The Write Memory command is used to program the 1024-bit EPROM data field. The bus master will follow the command byte with a 2-byte starting address (TA1 = (T7:T0), TA2 = (T15:T8)) and a byte of data  (D7:D0).  An  8-bit  CRC  of  the  command  byte,  address  bytes,  and  data  byte  is  computed  by  the DS2502 and read back by the bus master to confirm that the correct command word, starting address, and data byte were received.

The  highest  starting  address  within  the  DS2502  is  007FH.  If  the  bus  master  sends  a  starting  address higher than this, the nine 9 most significant address bits are set to 0 by the internal circuitry of the chip. This will result in a mismatch between the CRC calculated by the DS2502 and the CRC calculated by the bus master, indicating an error condition.

If the CRC read by the bus master is incorrect, a reset pulse must be issued and the entire sequence must be repeated. If the CRC received by the bus master is correct, a programming pulse (12 volts on the 1Wire bus for 480 µs) is issued by the bus master. Prior to programming, the entire unprogrammed 1024bit EPROM data field will appear as logical 1s. For each bit in the data byte provided by the bus master that  is  set  to  a  logical  0,  the  corresponding  bit  in  the  selected  byte  of  the  1024-bit  EPROM  will  be programmed to a logical 0 after the programming pulse has been applied at that byte location.

After the 480 µs programming pulse is applied and the data line returns to a 5-volt level, the bus master issues  eight  read  time  slots  to  verify  that  the  appropriate  bits  have  been  programmed.  The  DS2502 responds with the data from the selected EPROM address sent least significant bit first. This byte contains the logical AND of all bytes written to this EPROM data address. If the EPROM data byte contains 1s in bit  positions  where  the  byte  issued  by  the  master  contains  0s,  a  reset  pulse  should  be  issued  and  the current byte address should be programmed again. If the DS2502 EPROM data byte contains 0s in the same bit positions as the data byte, the programming was successful and the DS2502 will automatically increment  its  address  counter  to  select  the  next  byte  in  the  1024-bit  EPROM  data  field.    The  least

significant byte of the new two-byte address will also be loaded into the 8-bit CRC generator as a starting value. The bus master will issue the next byte of data using eight write time slots.

As the DS2502 receives this byte of data into the scratchpad, it also shifts the data into the CRC generator that has been preloaded with the LSB of the current address; the result is an 8-bit CRC of the new data byte and the LSB of the new address. After supplying the data byte, the bus master will read this 8-bit CRC from the DS2502 with eight read time slots to confirm that the address incremented properly and the data  byte  was  received  correctly.  If  the  CRC  is  incorrect,  a  reset  pulse  must  be  issued  and  the  Write Memory  command  sequence  must  be  restarted.  If  the  CRC  is  correct,  the  bus  master  will  issue  a programming pulse and the selected byte in memory will be programmed.

Note that the initial pass through the Write Memory flow chart will generate an 8-bit CRC value that is the result of shifting the command byte into the CRC generator, followed by the two address bytes, and finally  the  data  byte.  Subsequent  passes  through  the  Write  Memory  flow  chart  due  to  the  DS2502 automatically incrementing its address counter will generate an 8-bit CRC that is the result of loading (not shifting) the LSB of the new (incremented) address into the CRC generator and then shifting in the new data byte.

For  both  of  these  cases,  the  decision  to  continue  (to  apply  a  program  pulse  to  the  DS2502)  is  made entirely by the bus master, since the DS2502 will not be able to determine if the 8-bit CRC calculated by the bus master agrees with the 8-bit CRC calculated by the DS2502. If an incorrect CRC is ignored and a program pulse is applied by the bus master, incorrect programming could occur within the DS2502. Also note that the DS2502 will always increment its internal address counter after the receipt of the eight read time slots used to confirm the programming of the selected EPROM byte. The decision to continue is again made entirely by the bus master, therefore if the EPROM data byte does not match the supplied data byte does not match the supplied data byte but the master but the master continues with the Write Memory  command,  incorrect  programming  could  occur  within  the  DS2502.  The  Write  Memory command sequence can be exited at any point by issuing a reset pulse.

## WRITE STATUS [55h]

The Write Status command is used to program the EPROM status data field. The bus master will follow the command byte with a 2-byte starting address (TA1=(T7:T0), TA2=(T15:T8)) and a byte of status data (D7:D0). An 8-bit CRC of the command byte, address bytes, and data byte is computed by the DS2502 and read back by the bus master to confirm that the correct command word, starting address, and data byte were received.

If the CRC read by the bus master is incorrect, a reset pulse must be issued and the entire sequence must be repeated. If the CRC received by the bus master is correct, a programming pulse (12 volts on the 1Wire bus for 480 µs) is issued by the bus master. Prior to programming, the first 7 bytes of the EPROM Status data field will appear as logical 1s. For each bit in the data byte provided by the bus master that is set  to  a  logical  0,  the  corresponding  bit  in  the  selected  byte  of  the  EPROM  Status  data  field  will  be programmed to a logical 0 after the programming pulse has been applied at the byte location. The 8 th byte of the EPROM Status Byte data field is factory-programmed to contain 00h.

After the 480 µs programming pulse is applied and the data line returns to a 5-volt level, the bus master issues  eight  read  time  slots  to  verify  that  the  appropriate  bits  have  been  programmed.  The  DS2502 responds with the data from the selected EPROM Status address sent least significant bit first. This byte contains the logical AND of all bytes written to this EPROM Status Byte address. If the EPROM Status Byte contains 1s in bit positions where the byte issued by the master contained 0s, a reset pulse should be

issued  and the  current  byte  address  should  be  programmed again.  If  the  DS2502  EPROM Status Byte contains 0s in the same bit positions as the data byte, the programming was successful and the DS2502 will automatically increment its address counter to select the next byte in the EPROM Status data field. The least significant byte of the new 2-byte address will also be loaded into the 8-bit CRC generator as a starting value. The bus master will issue the next byte of data using eight write time slots.

As the DS2502 receives this byte of data into the scratchpad, it also shifts the data into the CRC generator that has been preloaded with the LSB of the current address and the result is an 8-bit CRC of the new data byte and the LSB of the new address. After supplying the data byte, the bus master will read this 8-bit CRC from the DS2502 with eight read time slots to confirm that the address incremented properly and the data byte was received correctly. If the CRC is incorrect, a reset pulse must be issued and the Write Status command sequence must be restarted. If the CRC is correct, the bus master will issue a programming pulse and the selected byte in memory will be programmed.

Note that the initial pass through the Write Status flow chart will generate an 8-bit CRC value that is the result of shifting the command byte into the CRC generator, followed by the 2 address bytes, and finally the data byte. Subsequent passes through the Write Status flow chart due to the DS2502 automatically incrementing its address counter will generate an 8-bit CRC that is the result of loading (not shifting) the LSB of the new (incremented) address into the CRC generator and then shifting in the new data byte.

For  both  of  these  cases,  the  decision  to  continue  (to  apply  a  program  pulse  to  the  DS2502)  is  made entirely by the bus master, since the DS2502 will not be able to determine if the 8-bit CRC calculated by the bus master agrees with the 8-bit CRC calculated by the DS2502. If an incorrect CRC is ignored and a program pulse is applied by the bus master, incorrect programming could occur within the DS2502. Also note that the DS2502 will always increment its internal address counter after the receipt of the eight read time slots used to confirm the programming of the selected EPROM byte. The decision to continue is again made entirely by the bus master, therefore if the EPROM data byte does not match the supplied data byte but the master continues with the Write Status command, incorrect programming could occur within the DS2502. The Write Status command sequence can be ended at any point by issuing a reset pulse.

## 1-Wire BUS SYSTEM

The 1-Wire bus is a system which has a single bus master and one or more slaves. In all instances, the DS2502  is  a  slave  device.  The  bus  master  is  typically  a  microcontroller.    The  discussion  of  this  bus system  is  broken  down  into  three  topics:  hardware  configuration,  transaction  sequence,  and  1-Wire signaling (signal type and timing). A 1-Wire protocol defines bus transactions in terms of the bus state during specified time slots that are initiated on the falling edge of sync pulses from the bus master.

## Hardware Configuration

The 1-Wire bus has only a single line by definition; it is important that each device on the bus be able to drive it at the appropriate time. To facilitate this, each device attached to the 1-Wire bus must have an open drain connection or three-state outputs. The DS2502 is an open drain part with an internal circuit equivalent to that shown in Figure 7. The bus master can be the same equivalent circuit. If a bi-directional pin is not available, separate output and input pins can be tied together.

The  bus  master  requires  a  pullup  resistor  at  the  master  end  of  the  bus,  with  the  bus  master  circuit equivalent  to  the  one  shown  in  Figures  8a  and  8b.  The  value  of  the  pullup  resistor  should  be approximately 5 kΩ for short line lengths.

A multidrop bus consists of a 1-Wire bus with multiple slaves attached. At regular speed the 1-Wire bus has  a  maximum  data  rate  of  16.3  kbits  per  second.  If  the  bus  master  is  also  required  to  perform programming of the EPROM portions of the DS2502, a programming supply capable of delivering up to 10  milliamps  at  12  volts  for  480  µs  is  required.  The  idle  state  for  the  1-Wire  bus  is  high.  If,  for  any reason, a transaction needs to be suspended, the bus MUST be left in the idle state if the transaction is to resume. If this does not occur and the bus is left low for more than 120 µs, one or more of the devices on the bus may be reset.

## Transaction Sequence

The sequence for accessing the DS2502 via the 1-Wire port is as follows:

-  Initialization
-  ROM Function Command
-  Memory Function Command
-  Read/Write Memory/Status

## INITIALIZATION

All  transactions  on  the  1-Wire  bus  begin  with  an  initialization  sequence.  The  initialization  sequence consists of a reset pulse transmitted by the bus master followed by a presence pulse(s) transmitted by the slave(s).

The presence pulse lets the bus master know that the DS2502 is on the bus and is ready to operate. For more details, see the '1-Wire Signaling' section.

## ROM FUNCTION COMMANDS

Once the bus master has detected a presence, it can issue one of the six ROM function commands. All ROM function commands are 8 bits long. A list of these commands follows (refer to flowchart in Figure 9):

## Read ROM [33h]

This  command  allows  the  bus  master  to  read  the  DS2502's  8-bit  family  code,  unique  48-bit  serial number, and 8-bit CRC. This command can be used only if there is a single DS2502 on the bus. If more than one slave is present on the bus, a data collision will occur when all slaves try to transmit at the same time (open drain will produce a wired-AND result).

## Match ROM [55h]

The Match ROM command, followed by a 64-bit ROM sequence, allows the bus master to address a specific DS2502 on a multidrop bus. Only the DS2502 that exactly matches the 64-bit ROM sequence will respond to the subsequent memory function command. All slaves that do not match the 64-bit ROM sequence will wait for a reset pulse. This command can be used with a single or multiple devices on the bus.

## DS2502 EQUIVALENT CIRCUIT Figure 7

<!-- image -->

## BUS MASTER CIRCUIT Figure 8

<!-- image -->

## ROM FUNCTIONS FLOW CHART Figure 9

<!-- image -->

## Skip ROM [CCh]

This  command  can  save  time  in  a  single-drop  bus  system  by  allowing  the  bus  master  to  access  the memory functions without providing the 64-bit ROM code. If more than one slave is present on the bus and a read command is issued following the Skip ROM command, data collision will occur on the bus as multiple slaves transmit simultaneously (open drain pulldowns will produce a wired-AND result).

## Search ROM [F0h]

When a system is initially brought up, the bus master might not know the number of devices on the 1Wire bus or their 64-bit ROM codes. The search ROM command allows the bus master to use a process of elimination to identify the 64-bit ROM codes of all slave devices on the bus. The ROM search process is the repetition of a simple, three-step routine: read a bit, read the complement of the bit, then write the desired value of that bit. The bus master performs this simple, three-step routine on each bit of the ROM. After one complete pass, the bus master knows the contents of the ROM in one device. The remaining number of devices and their ROM codes may be identified by additional passes. See Application Note 187 for a comprehensive discussion of a ROM search, including an actual example.

## 1-Wire Signaling

The  DS2502  requires  strict  protocols  to  ensure  data  integrity.  The  protocol  consists  of  five  types  of signaling on one line: Reset Sequence with Reset Pulse and Presence Pulse, Write 0, Write 1, Read Data and  Program  Pulse.  All  these  signals  except  presence  pulse  are  initiated  by  the  bus  master.  The initialization sequence required to begin any communication with the DS2502 is shown in Figure 10. A Reset Pulse followed by a Presence Pulse indicates the DS2502 is ready to accept a ROM command. The bus master transmits (TX) a reset pulse (tRSTL, minimum 480 µs). The bus master then releases the line and goes into receive mode (RX). The 1-Wire bus is pulled to a high state via the pullup resistor. After detecting  the  rising  edge  on  the  data  pin,  the  DS2502  waits  (tPDH,  15-60  µs)  and  then  transmits  the presence pulse (tPDL, 60-240 µs).

## Read/Write Time Slots

The definitions of write and read time slots are illustrated in Figure 11. All time slots are initiated by the master driving the data line low. The falling edge of the data line synchronizes the DS2502 to the master by triggering a delay circuit in the DS2502. During write time slots, the delay circuit determines when the DS2502 will sample the data line. For a read data time slot, if a '0' is to be transmitted, the delay circuit determines how long the DS2502 will hold the data line low overriding the '1' generated by the master. If the data bit is a 1, the device will leave the read data time slot unchanged.

## PROGRAM PULSE

To copy data from the 8-bit scratchpad to the 1024-bit EPROM Memory or Status Memory, a program pulse of 12 volts is applied to the data line after the bus master has confirmed that the CRC for the current byte is correct.  During programming, the bus master controls the transition from a state where the data line is idling high via the pullup resistor to a state where the data line is actively driven to a programming voltage of 12 volts providing a minimum of 10 mA of current to the DS2502.  This programming voltage (Figure 12) should be applied for 480 µs, after which the bus master returns the data line to an idle high state controlled by the pullup resistor. Note that due to the high-voltage programming requirements for any 1-Wire EPROM device, it is not possible to multidrop non-EPROM based 1-Wire devices with the DS2502  during  programming.    An  internal  diode  within  the  non-EPROM  based  1-Wire  devices  will attempt to clamp the data line at approximately 8 volts and could potentially damage these devices.

## CRC GENERATION

The DS2502 has an 8-bit CRC stored in the most significant byte of the 64-bit ROM. The bus master can compute a CRC value from the first 56 bits of the 64-bit ROM and compare it to the value stored within the DS2502 to determine if the ROM data has been received error-free by the bus master. The equivalent polynomial function of this CRC is: X 8 + X 5 + X 4 +1.

Under  certain  conditions,  the  DS2502  also  generates  an  8-bit  CRC  value  using  the  same  polynomial function  shown  above  and  provides  this  value  to  the  bus  master  to  validate  the  transfer  of  command, address, and data bytes from the bus master to the DS2502. The Memory Function Flow Chart of Figure 6 indicates that the DS2502 computes an 8-bit CRC for the command, address, and data bytes received for the Write Memory and the Write Status commands and then outputs this value to the bus master to confirm  proper  transfer.  Similarly  the  DS2502  computes  an  8-bit  CRC  for  the  command  and  address bytes received from the bus master for the Read Memory, Read Status, and Read Data/Generate 8-Bit CRC commands to confirm that these bytes  have  been  received  correctly.  The  CRC  generator  on  the DS2502 is also used to provide verification of error-free data transfer as each page of data from the 1024bit EPROM is sent to the bus master during a Read Data/Generate 8-Bit CRC command, and for the 8 bytes of information in the status memory field.

In each case where a CRC is used for data transfer validation, the bus master must calculate a CRC value using  the  polynomial  function  given  above  and  compare  the  calculated  value  to  either  the  8-bit  CRC value stored in the 64-bit ROM portion of the DS2502 (for ROM reads) or the 8-bit CRC value computed within  the  DS2502.  The  comparison  of  CRC  values  and  decision  to  continue  with  an  operation  are determined entirely  by  the  bus  master.  There  is  no  circuitry  on  the  DS2502  that  prevents  a  command sequence from proceeding if the CRC stored in or calculated by the DS2502 does not match the value generated by the bus master. Proper use of the CRC as outlined in the flow chart of Figure 6 can result in a communication channel with a very high level of integrity. For more details on generating CRC values including example implementations in both hardware and software, see Application Note 27 .

## INITIALIZATION PROCEDURE 'RESET AND PRESENCE PULSES' Figure 10

<!-- image -->

## READ/WRITE TIMING DIAGRAM Figure 11

## Write-one Time Slot

<!-- image -->

60

µ

s

≤

tSLOT &lt; 120

µ

1 µ s ≤ tLOW1 &lt; 15 µ s

1 µ s ≤ tREC &lt; ∞

s

## Write-zero Time Slot

<!-- image -->

60 µ s ≤ tLOW0 &lt; tSLOT &lt; 120 µ s

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- image -->

## Read-data Time Slot

RESISTOR

MASTER

DS2502

60 µ s ≤ tSLOT &lt; 120 µ s

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

## PROGRAM PULSE TIMING DIAGRAM Figure 12

<!-- image -->

## ABSOLUTE MAXIMUM RATINGS

Voltage on any Pin Relative to Ground

-0.5V to +12.0V

Operating Temperature

-40°C to +85°C

Storage Temperature

-55°C to +125°C

Lead Temperature (TO-92, TSOC, SOT23-3, SOIC only, soldering 10s)

+300°C

Soldering Temperature (reflow)

TO-92

+250°C

TSOC, SOT-23, SOIC, WLP

+260°C

SFN

Refer to Application Note 4132:

Attachment

methods for the electro-mechanical SFN package.

This is a stress rating only and functional operation of the device at these or any other conditions above those indicated in the operation sections of this specification is not implied. Exposure to absolute maximum rating conditions for extended periods of time may affect reliability.

## DC ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS

| PARAMETER                  | SYMBOL   | MIN   | TYP   | MAX   | UNITS   | NOTES   |
|----------------------------|----------|-------|-------|-------|---------|---------|
| Pullup Voltage             | V PUP    | 2.8   |       | 6     | V       | 1, 2    |
| Logic 1                    | V IH     | 2.2   |       |       | V       | 1, 6    |
| Logic 0                    | V IL     | -0.3  |       | +0.8  | V       | 1, 11   |
| Output LogicLow@4mA        | V OL     |       |       | 0.4   | V       | 1       |
| Input Load Current         | I L      |       | 5     |       | µ A     | 3       |
| Operating Charge           | Q OP     |       |       | 30    | nC      | 7, 8    |
| Programming Voltage @10 mA | V PP     | 11.5  |       | 12.0  | V       |         |
| Valid EPROM Read Voltage   | V EPR    | 2.8   |       | 6.0   | V       | 13      |

## CAPACITANCE

(TA = -40°C to +85°C)

(TA =25°C)

| PARAMETER     | SYMBOL   | MIN   | TYP   |   MAX | UNITS   |   NOTES |
|---------------|----------|-------|-------|-------|---------|---------|
| Data (1-Wire) | C IN/OUT |       |       |   800 | pF      |       9 |

## AC ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS

## (TA = -40°C to +85°C)

| PARAMETER                 | SYMBOL    | MIN        | TYP        | MAX        | UNITS   | NOTES   |
|---------------------------|-----------|------------|------------|------------|---------|---------|
| Time Slot                 | t SLOT    | 60         |            | 120        | µs      |         |
| Write 1 Low Time          | t LOW1    | 1          |            | 15         | µs      |         |
| Write 0 Low Time          | t LOW0    | 60         |            | 120        | µs      |         |
| Read Data Valid           | t RDV     | exactly 15 | exactly 15 | exactly 15 | µs      |         |
| Release Time              | t RELEASE | 0          | 15         | 45         | µs      |         |
| Read Data Setup           | t SU      |            |            | 1          | µs      | 5       |
| Recovery Time             | t REC     | 1          |            |            | µs      |         |
| Reset Time High           | t RSTH    | 480        |            |            | µs      | 4       |
| Reset Time Low            | t RSTL    | 480        |            | 960        | µs      | 14      |
| Presence Detect High      | t PDH     | 15         |            | 60         | µs      |         |
| Presence Detect Low       | t PDL     | 60         |            | 240        | µs      |         |
| Delay to Program          | t DP      | 5          |            |            | µ s     | 10      |
| Delay to Verify           | t DV      | 5          |            |            | µs      | 10      |
| Program Pulse Width       | t PP      | 480        |            | 5000       | µs      | 10, 12  |
| Program Voltage Rise Time | t RP      | 0.5        |            | 5.0        | µs      | 10      |
| Program Voltage Fall Time | t FP      | 0.5        |            | 5.0        | µs      | 10      |

## NOTES:

1. All voltages are referenced to ground.
2. VPUP = external pullup voltage.
3. Input load is to ground.
4. An additional reset or communication sequence cannot begin until the reset high time has expired.
5. Read data setup time refers to the time the host must pull the 1-Wire bus low to read a bit. Data is guaranteed to be valid within 1 µ s of this falling edge and will remain valid for 14 µs minimum. (15 µs total from falling edge on 1-Wire bus.)
6. VIH is a function of the external pullup resistor and the pull-up voltage.
7. 30 nanocoulombs per 72 time slots @ 5.0V.
8. At VCC=5.0V with a 5 k Ω pullup to VCC and a maximum time slot of 120 µs.
9. Capacitance on the data pin could be 800 pF when power is first applied. If a 5 k Ω resistor is used to pullup the data line to VCC, 5 µs after power has been applied the parasite capacitance will not affect normal communications.
10. Maximum 1-Wire voltage for programming parameters is 11.5V to 12.0V; temperature range is -40°C to +50°C.
11. Under certain low-voltage conditions VILMAX may have to be reduced to as much as 0.5V to always guarantee a presence pulse.
12. The accumulative duration of the programming pulses for each address must not exceed 5 ms.
13. IC operation and 1-wire communication is valid at VPUP=2.5V or higher, but EPROM data read is only valid when VPUP=2.8V or higher.
14. Reset low pulse on DQ must be preceded by a valid tREC recovery time above the minimum VPUP voltage of 2.5V.

## PACKAGE INFORMATION

For the latest package outline information and land patterns (footprints), go to www.analog.com/en/resources/packaging-quality-symbols-footprints/package-index.html . Note that a '+', '#', or '-' in the package code indicates RoHS status only. Package drawings may show a different suffix character, but the drawing pertains to the package regardless of RoHS status.

| PACKAGE TYPE             | PACKAGE CODE   | OUTLINE NO.   | LAND PATTERN NO.   |
|--------------------------|----------------|---------------|--------------------|
| 3 TO-92 (straight leads) | Q3+1           | 21-0248       | -                  |
| 3 TO-92 (formed leads)   | Q3+4           | 21-0250       | -                  |
| 2 SFN                    | G266N+1        | 21-0390       | -                  |
| 6 TSOC                   | D6+1           | 21-0382       | 90-0321            |
| 3 SOT-23                 | U3+5           | 21-0051       | 90-0179            |
| 8 SO                     | S8+2           | 21-0041       | 90-0096            |
| 4 WLP                    | N40D1+1        | 21-0723       | Refer to 21-0723   |

## REVISION HISTORY

| REVISION DATE   | DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                     | PAGES CHANGED   |
|-----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|
| 102199          | Conversion to new template.                                                                                                     | All             |
| 030806          | SOT-23 package added, lead (Pb)-free part numbers added.                                                                        | 1, 2            |
| 032307          | Flip chip package added.                                                                                                        | 1, 2            |
| 071107          | Note added that TO-92 tape &reel has formed leads.                                                                              | 1               |
| 12/09           | Added note to Figure 10 that changed t RSTL to 960µs maximum.                                                                   | 18              |
| 12/09           | Added V EPR specification. Changed t RSTL to 960µs maximum.                                                                     | 21              |
| 12/09           | Added notes 13 and 14 to Electrical Characteristics table.                                                                      | 22              |
| 12/11           | Added SFN package, cleaned up ordering information; typo corrections.                                                           | 1, 2, 5, 9, 11  |
| 12/11           | Updated lead temperature and soldering information.                                                                             | 21              |
| 12/11           | Moved V PUP from Electrical Characteristics table header to table body, deleted V OH from the Electrical Characteristics table. | 21              |
| 12/11           | Added Package Information section; extended Revision History .                                                                  | 23, 24          |
| 8/14            | Replaced flip chip variant with WLP package                                                                                     | 1, 2, 21, 23    |
| 3/15            | Updated Benefits and Features section                                                                                           | 1               |

Information furnished by Analog Devices is believed to be accurate and reliable. However, no responsibility is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements  of  patents  or  other  rights  of  third  parties  that  may  result  from  its  use.  Specifications  subject  to  change  without  notice.  No  license  is  granted  by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All Analog Devices products contained herein are subject to release and availability.

© 2015 Analog Devices, Inc. All rights reserved. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. One Analog Way, Wilmington, MA 01887 U.S.A. | Tel: 781.329.4700 | © 2015 Analog Devices, Inc. All rights reserved.