<!-- lastmod 2023-11-22 -->
<!-- image -->

## DeepCover Secure Authenticator with 1-Wire SHA-256 and 512-Bit User EEPROM

## General Description

DeepCover™  embedded  security  solutions  cloak  sensitive data  under  multiple  layers  of  advanced  physical  security  to provide the most secure key storage possible.

The  DeepCover  Secure Authenticator  (DS28E15)  combines crypto-strong  bidirectional  secure  challenge-and-response authentication  functionality  with  an  implementation  based on  the  FIPS  180-3-specified  Secure  Hash Algorithm  (SHA256). A 512-bit user-programmable EEPROM array provides nonvolatile  storage  of  application  data.  Additional  protected memory  holds  a  read-protected  secret  for  SHA-256  operations and settings for memory protection control. Each device has its own guaranteed unique 64-bit ROM identification number (ROM ID) that is factory programmed into the chip. This unique  ROM  ID  is  used  as  a  fundamental  input  parameter for cryptographic operations and also serves as an electronic serial  number  within  the  application. A  bidirectional  security model enables two-way authentication between a host system and slave-embedded DS28E15. Slave-to-host authentication is used by a host system to securely validate that an attached or  embedded DS28E15 is authentic. Host-to-slave authentication is used to protect DS28E15 user memory from being modified by a unauthentic host. The DS28E15 communicates over the single-contact 1-WireM bus at overdrive speed. The communication follows the 1-Wire protocol with the ROM ID acting as node address in the case of a multi-device 1-Wire network.

## Applications

- Authentication of Consumables
- Secure Feature Control

## Benefits and Features

- 512-Bit EEPROM with SHA-256 Authentication for Reads and Writes
- Symmetric-Key-Based Bidirectional Secure Authentication Model Based on SHA-256
- Strong Authentication with a High-Bit-Count UserProgrammable Secret and Input Challenge
- 512 Bits of User EEPROM Partitioned Into Two Pages of 256 Bits
- User-Programmable and Irreversible EEPROM Protection Modes Including Authentication, Write and Read Protect, and OTP/EPROM Emulation
- Unique Factory-Programmed, 64-Bit Identification Number
- Minimalist 1-Wire Interface Lowers Cost and Interface Complexity
- Reduces Control, Address, Data, Power, and Programming Signals to a Single Data Pin
- ±8kV HBM ESD Protection (typ)
- 2-Pin SFN, 6-Pin TDFN-EP, and 6-Pin TSOC Packages
- Operating Range: 3.3V ±10%, -40°C to +85°C

## Typical Application Circuit

<!-- image -->

DeepCover is a trademark and 1-Wire is a registered trademark of Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.

Visit  Web Support to complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

Rev. 3

DOCUMENT FEEDBACK

TECHNICAL SUPPORT

<!-- image -->