<!-- lastmod 2024-12-10 -->
<!-- image -->

## 1Kb Protected 1-Wire EEPROM with SHA-1 Engine

Click here to ask an associate for production status of specific part numbers.

DS28E01-100/DS28E01A-100

## General Description

The  DS28E01-100/DS28E01A-100  combine  1024  bits of EEPROM with challenge-and-response authentication security  implemented  with  the  ISO/IEC  10118-3  Secure Hash Algorithm (SHA-1). The device can process SHA-1 input block secrets of 64 bits and 320 bits in conjunction with  a  40-bit  random  challenge  and  additional  device data to provide a high degree of authentication security between a host system and peripheral accessories. The 1024-bit EEPROM array is configured as four pages of 256 bits  with  a  64-bit  scratchpad  to  perform  write  operations. All  memory pages can be write protected, and one page can  be  put  in  EPROM-emulation  mode,  where  bits  can only be changed from a 1 to a 0 state. Each DS28E01100/DS28E01A-100 has its own guaranteed unique 64-bit ROM registration number that is factory-programmed into the chip. The DS28E01-100/DS28E01A-100 communicate over the single-contact 1-Wire ®  bus. The communication follows  the  standard  1-Wire  protocol  with  the  registration number acting as the node address in the case of a multidevice 1-Wire network.

## Applications

- Printer Cartridge Configuration and Monitoring
- Medical Sensor Authentication and Calibration
- System Intellectual Property Protection

## Typical Operating Circuit

<!-- image -->

Pin Configurations appear at end of data sheet.

## Features

- 1024 Bits of EEPROM Memory Partitioned into Four Pages of 256 Bits
- On-Chip 512-Bit SHA-1 Engine to Compute 160Bit Message Authentication Codes (MACs) and to Generate Secrets
- Dedicated 64-Bit Write-Only Secret with a Feature to Extend the Secret Size to 320 Bits by Setting a 256Bit Page as Both Read and Write Protected
- 5-Byte Challenge Size for Read Authenticated Page with Optional 'Anonymous' Mode
- Write Access Requires Knowledge of the Secret and the Capability of Computing and Transmitting a 160Bit MAC as Authorization
- User-Programmable Page Write Protection for Page 0, Page 3, or All Four Pages Together
- User-Programmable OTP EPROM Emulation Mode for Page 1 ('Write to 0')
- Communicates to Host with a Single Digital Signal at 15.3kbps or 90.9kbps Using 1-Wire Protocol
- Switchpoint Hysteresis and Filtering to Optimize Performance in the Presence of Noise
- Reads and Writes over 2.8V to 5.25V Voltage Range from -40°C to +85°C
- 6-Lead TSOC and TDFN or 2-Lead TO-92 Packages

## Ordering Information

| PART             | TEMP RANGE     | PIN-PACKAGE           |
|------------------|----------------|-----------------------|
| DS28E01-100+     | -40°C to +85°C | 2 TO-92               |
| DS28E01P-100+    | -40°C to +85°C | 6 TSOC                |
| DS28E01AP-100+   | -40°C to +85°C | 6 TSOC                |
| DS28E01P-100+T   | -40°C to +85°C | 6 TSOC                |
| DS28E01AP-100+T  | -40°C to +85°C | 6 TSOC                |
| DS28E01Q-100+T&R | -40°C to +85°C | 6 TDFN-EP* (2.5k pcs) |

1-Wire is a registered trademark of Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

219-0007; Rev 10/24

One  Analog  Way,  Wilmington,  MA  01887  U.S.A.    |      Tel:  781.329.4700      |      © 2024  Analog  Devices,  Inc.  All  rights  reserved. 2024  Analog  Devices,  Inc.  All  rights  reserved.  Trademarks  and  registered  trademarks  are  the  property  of  their  respective  owners.

©

DS28E01-100/ DS28E01A-100

<!-- image -->

1Kb Protected 1-Wire EEPROM with SHA-1 Engine

Information furnished by Analog Devices is believed to be accurate and reliable. However, no responsibility is asumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subMect to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All Analog Devices products contained herein are subMect to release and avilability

│