<!-- lastmod 2025-06-22 -->
<!-- image -->

## FEATURES

- n 1.2MHz Switching Frequency
- n Low V CESAT  Switches: 330mV at 1.3A
- n High Output Voltage: Up to 40V
- n Wide Input Range: 2.4V to 16V
- n Inverting Capability
- n 5V at 630mA from 3.3V Input
- n 12V at 320mA from 5V Input
- n -12V at 200mA from 5V Input
- n Uses Tiny Surface Mount Components
- n Low Shutdown Current: &lt;1µA
- n Low Profile (0.75mm) 10-Lead 3mm × 3mm DFN Package

## APPLICATIONS

- n Organic LED Power Supply
- n Digital Cameras
- n White LED Power Supply
- n Cellular Phones
- n Medical Diagnostic Equipment
- n Local ±5V or ±12V Supply
- n TFT-LCD Bias Supply
- n xDSL Power Supply

## TYPICAL APPLICATION

<!-- image -->

## Dual 1.3A, 1.2MHz Boost/Inverter in 3mm × 3mm DFN

## DESCRIPTION

The LT ® 3471 dual switching regulator combines two 42V, 1.3A  switches  with  error  amplifiers  that  can  sense  to ground providing boost and inverting capability. The low VCESAT  bipolar switches enable the device to deliver high current outputs in a small footprint. The LT3471 switches at  1.2MHz, allowing the use of tiny,  low  cost  and  low  profile inductors and capacitors. High inrush current at start-up is eliminated using the programmable soft-start function, where an external  RC  sets  the  current  ramp  rate.  A  constant frequency current mode PWM architecture results in low, predictable output noise that is easy to filter.

The LT3471 switches are rated at 42V, making the device ideal for boost converters up to ±40V as well as SEPIC and flyback designs. Each channel can generate 5V at up to 630mA from a 3.3V supply, or 5V at 510mA from four alkaline cells in a SEPIC design. The device can be configured as two boosts, a boost and inverter or two inverters.

The LT3471 is available in a low profile (0.75mm) 10-lead 3mm × 3mm DFN package.

All registered trademarks and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

<!-- image -->

3471 TA01b

Rev. C

## ABSOLUTE MAXIMUM RATINGS

(Note 1)

| V IN Voltage................................................................16V   |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| SW1, SW2 Voltage.....................................-0.4V to 42V                 |
| FB1N, FB1P , FB2N, FB2P Voltage.........12V or V IN - 1.5V                        |
| SHDN /SS1, SHDN /SS2 Voltage ............................... 16V                  |
| V REF Voltage.............................................................1.5V    |
| Maximum Junction Temperature ........................ 125°C                       |
| Operating Temperature Range (Note 2)....-40°C to 85°C                             |
| Storage Temperature Range...................-65°C to 125°C                        |

## ORDER INFORMATION

| LEAD FREE FINISH   | TAPE AND REEL   | PART MARKING   | PACKAGE DESCRIPTION             | TEMPERATURE RANGE   |
|--------------------|-----------------|----------------|---------------------------------|---------------------|
| LT3471EDD#PBF      | LT3471EDD#TRPBF | LBHM           | 10-Lead (3mm × 3mm) Plastic DFN | -40°C to 85°C       |
| LEAD BASED FINISH  | TAPE AND REEL   | PART MARKING   | PACKAGE DESCRIPTION             | TEMPERATURE RANGE   |
| LT3471EDD          | LT3471EDD#TR    | LBHM           | 10-Lead (3mm × 3mm) Plastic DFN | -40°C to 85°C       |

For more information on lead free part marking, go to: www.adi.com/leadfree/

This product is only offered in trays. For more information go to: www.adi.com/tapeandreel/

## ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS

The

l

denotes specifications which apply over the full operating temperature range, otherwise specifications are T A  = 25°C. V IN  = V SHDN = 3V unless otherwise noted.

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

| PARAMETER                         | CONDITIONS                                                     |    | MIN         | TYP       | MAX         | UNITS   |
|-----------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|----|-------------|-----------|-------------|---------|
| Minimum Operating Voltage         |                                                                |    |             | 2.1       | 2.4         | V       |
| Reference Voltage                 |                                                                | l  | 0.991 0.987 | 1.000     | 1.009 1.013 | V V     |
| Reference Voltage Current Limit   | (Note 3)                                                       |    | 1           | 1.4       |             | mA      |
| Reference Voltage Load Regulation | 0mA ≤ I REF ≤ 100µA (Note 3)                                   |    |             | 0.1       | 0.2         | %/100µA |
| Reference Voltage Line Regulation | 2.6V ≤ V IN ≤ 16V                                              |    |             | 0.03      | 0.08        | %/V     |
| Error Amplifier Offset            | Transition from Not Switching to Switching, V FBP = V FBN = 1V |    |             | ±2        | ±3          | mV      |
| FB Pin Bias Current               | V FB = 1V (Note 3)                                             | l  |             | 60        | 100         | nA      |
| Quiescent Current                 | V SHDN = 1.8V, Not Switching                                   |    |             | 2.5       | 4           | mA      |
| Quiescent Current in Shutdown     | V SHDN = 0.3V, V IN = 3V                                       |    |             | 0.01      | 1           | µA      |
| Switching Frequency               |                                                                |    | 1           | 1.2       | 1.4         | MHz     |
| Maximum Duty Cycle                |                                                                | l  | 90 86       | 94        |             | % %     |
| Minimum Duty Cycle                |                                                                |    |             | 15        |             | %       |
| Switch Current Limit              | At Minimum Duty Cycle At Maximum Duty Cycle (Note 4)           |    | 1.5 0.9     | 2.05 1.45 | 2.6 2.0     | A A     |
| Switch V CESAT                    | I SW = 0.5A (Note 5)                                           |    |             | 150       | 250         | mV      |
| Switch Leakage Current            | V SW = 5V                                                      |    |             | 0.01      | 1           | µA      |
| SHDN /SS Input Voltage High       |                                                                |    | 1.8         |           |             | V       |

## PIN CONFIGURATION

<!-- image -->

ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS The l denotes specifications which apply over the full operating temperature range, otherwise specifications are T A  = 25°C. V IN  = V SHDN = 3V unless otherwise noted.

| PARAMETER              | CONDITIONS                         | TYP   | MAX    | UNITS   |
|------------------------|------------------------------------|-------|--------|---------|
| SHDN Input Voltage Low | Quiescent Current ≤ 1µA            |       | 0.3    | V       |
| SHDN Pin Bias Current  | V SHDN = 3V, V IN = 4V V SHDN = 0V | 22 0  | 36 0.1 | µA µA   |

Note 1: Stresses beyond those listed under Absolute Maximum Ratings may cause permanent damage to the device. Exposure to any Absolute Maximum Rating condition for extended periods may affect device reliability and lifetime.

temperature range are assured by design, characterization and correlation with statistical process controls.

Note 3: Current flows out of the pin.

Note 2: The LT3471E is guaranteed to meet performance specifications from 0°C to 70°C. Specifications over the -40°C to 85°C operating

Note 4: See Typical Performance Characteristics for guaranteed current limit vs duty cycle.

Note 5: VCESAT  is 100% tested at wafer level only.

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS

<!-- image -->

3471 G01

SHDN /SS Current vs SHDN /SS Voltage

<!-- image -->

3471 G04

<!-- image -->

3471 G02

<!-- image -->

Current Limit vs Duty Cycle

<!-- image -->

Switch Saturation Voltage vs Switch Current

<!-- image -->

3471 G06

Rev. C

<!-- image -->

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS

<!-- image -->

## PIN FUNCTIONS

FB1N  (Pin  1): Negative  Feedback  Pin  for  Switcher  1. Connect resistive divider tap here. Minimize trace area at FB1N. Set V OUT  = V FB1P (1 + R1/R2), or connect to ground for inverting topologies.

FB1P (Pin 2): Positive  Feedback  Pin  for  Switcher  1.  Connect either  to  V REF   or  a  divided  down  version  of  V REF ,  or  connect to a resistive divider tap for inverting topologies.

VREF   (Pin  3): 1.00V  Reference  Pin.  Can  supply  up  to 1mA of current. Do not pull this pin high. Must be locally bypassed with no less than 0.01µF and no more than 1µF. A 0.1µF ceramic capacitor is recommended. Use this pin as the positive feedback reference or connect a resistor divider here for a smaller reference voltage.

FB2P (Pin 4): Same as FB1P but for Switcher 2.

FB2N (Pin 5): Same as FB1N but for Switcher 2.

SW2 (Pin 6): Switch Pin for Switcher 2 (Collector of internal NPN power switch). Connect inductor/diode here and minimize the metal trace area connected to this pin to minimize EMI.

SHDN /SS2 (Pin 7): Shutdown and Soft-Start Pin. Tie to 1.8V or more to enable device. Ground to shut down. Softstart function is provided when the voltage at this pin is ramped slowly to 1.8V with an external RC circuit.

VIN  (Pin 8): Input Supply. Must be locally bypassed.

SHDN /SS1 (Pin 9): Same  as SHDN /SS2 but for  Switcher 1. Note: taking either SHDN /SS pin high will enable the part. Each switcher is individually enabled with its respective SHDN /SS pin.

SW1 (Pin 10): Same as SW2 but for Switcher 1.

Exposed Pad (Pin 11): Ground. Connect directly to local ground plane. This ground plane also serves as a heat sink for optimal thermal performance.

## BLOCK DIAGRAM

Figure 1. Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

the output. Similarly, if the error decreases, less current is delivered. Each switcher functions independently but they share the same oscillator and thus the switchers are always in phase. Enabling the part is done by taking either SHDN /SS pin above 1.8V. Disabling the part is done by grounding both SHDN /SS pins. The soft-start feature of the LT3471 allows for clean start-up conditions by limiting the amount of voltage rise at the output of comparator A1 and A2, which in turn limits the peak switching current. The  soft-start  feature  for  each  switcher  is  enabled  by slowly ramping that switcher's SHDN /SS pin, using an RC network, for example. Typical resistor and capacitor values are 0.33µF and 4.7k, allowing for a start-up time on the order of milliseconds. The LT3471 has a current limit circuit not shown in the Block Diagram. The switch current is constantly monitored and not allowed to exceed the maximum switch current (typically 1.6A). If the switch

Rev. C

## OPERATION

The  LT3471  uses  a  constant  frequency,  current  mode control scheme to provide excellent line and load regulation. Refer to the Block Diagram. At the start of each oscillator cycle, the SR latch is set, which turns on the power switch, Q1 (Q2).  A  voltage  proportional  to  the  switch current is added to a stabilizing ramp and the resulting sum is fed into the positive terminal of the PWM comparator A2 (A4). When this voltage exceeds the level at the negative input of A2 (A4), the SR latch is reset, turning off the power switch Q1 (Q2). The level at the negative input of A2 (A4) is set by the error amplifier A1 (A3) and is simply an amplified version of the difference between the negative feedback voltage and the positive feedback voltage,  usually  tied  to  the  reference  voltage  V REG .  In this  manner,  the  error  amplifier  sets  the  correct  peak current level to keep the output in regulation. If the error amplifier's output increases, more current is delivered to

## OPERATION

current reaches this value, the SR latch is reset regardless of the state of the comparator A2 (A4). Also not shown in the Block Diagram is the thermal shutdown circuit. If the temperature of the part exceeds approximately 160°C,

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## Duty Cycle

The typical maximum duty cycle of the LT3471 is 94%. The duty cycle for a given application is given by:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Where V D  is the diode forward voltage drop and V CESAT is in the worst case 330mV (at 1.3A)

The LT3471 can be used at higher duty cycles, but it must be operated in the discontinuous conduction mode so that the actual duty cycle is reduced.

## Setting Output Voltage

Setting the output voltage depends on the topology used. For normal noninverting boost regulator topologies:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where V FBN  is connected between R1 and R2 (see the Typical Applications section for examples).

Select values of R1 and R2 according to the following equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

A good value for R2 is 15k which sets the current in the resistor divider chain to 1.00V/15k = 67µA.

VFBP  is usually just tied to V REF  = 1.00V, but V FBP  can also be tied to a divided down version of V REF  or some other voltage as long as the absolute maximum ratings for the feedback pins are not exceeded (see Absolute Maximum Ratings).

<!-- image -->

both latches are reset regardless of the state of comparators A2 and A4. The current limit and thermal shutdown circuits protect the power switch as well as the external components connected to the LT3471.

For inverting topologies, V FBN  is tied to ground and V FBP is connected between R1 and R2.  R2 is between V FBP and V REF  and R1 is between V FBP  and V OUT  (see the Applications section for examples). In this case:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Select values of R1 and R2 according to the following equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

A good value for R2 is 15k, which sets the current in the resistor divider chain to 1.00V/15k = 67µA.

## Switching Frequency and Inductor Selection

The LT3471 switches at 1.2 MHz, allowing for small valued inductors to be used. 4.7µH or 10µH will usually suffice. Choose an inductor that can handle at least 1.4A without saturating, and ensure that the inductor has a low DCR (copper-wire resistance) to minimize I 2 R power losses. Note  that  in  some  applications,  the  current  handling requirements of the inductor can be lower, such as in the SEPIC topology where each inductor only carries one half of  the  total  switch  current.  For  better  efficiency,  use  similar valued inductors with  a  larger  volume.  Many  different  sizes and  shapes  are  available  from  various  manufacturers. Choose a core material that has low losses at 1.2 MHz, such as ferrite core.

Table 1. Inductor Manufacturers

| Sumida   | (847) 956-0666   | www.sumida.com   |
|----------|------------------|------------------|
| TDK      | (847) 803-6100   | www.tdk.com      |
| Murata   | (714) 852-2001   | www.murata.com   |

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## Soft-Start and Shutdown Features

To shut down the part, ground both SHDN /SS pins. To shut down one switcher but not the other one, ground that switcher's SHDN /SS pin. The soft-start feature provides a way to limit the inrush current drawn from the supply upon start-up. To use the soft-start feature for either switcher, slowly ramp up that switcher's SHDN /SS pin. The rate of voltage rise at the output of the switcher's comparator (A1 or A3 for switcher 1 or switcher 2 respectively) tracks the rate of voltage rise at the SHDN /SS pin once the SHDN /SS pin has reached about 1.1V. The soft-start function will go away once the voltage at the SHDN /SS pin exceeds 1.8V. See the Peak Switch Current vs SHDN /SS Voltage graph in the Typical Performance Characteristics section. The rate of voltage rise at the SHDN /SS pin can easily be controlled with a simple RC network connected between the control signal and the SHDN /SS pin. Typical values for the RC network are 4.7kΩ and 0.33µF, giving start-up times on the order of milliseconds. This RC time constant can be adjusted to give different start-up times. If different values of resistance are to be used, keep in mind the SHDN /SS Current vs SHDN /SS voltage graph along with the Peak Switch Current vs SHDN /SS Voltage graph, both found in the Typical Performance Characteristics section. The impedance looking into the SHDN /SS pin depends on whether the SHDN /SS is above or below V IN . Normally SHDN /SS will not be driven above V IN ,  and thus the impedance looks like 100kΩ in series with a diode. If the voltage of the SHDN /SS pin is above V IN , the impedance looks more like 50kΩ in series with a diode. This 100kΩ or 50kΩ impedance can have a slight effect on the start-up time if you choose the R in the RC soft-start network too large. Another consideration is selecting the soft-start time so that the soft-start feature is dominated by the RC network and not the capacitor on V REF . (See V REF  voltage reference section of the Applications Information for details.)

The soft-start feature is of particular importance in applications where the switch will see voltage levels of 30V or  higher.  In  these  applications,  the  simultaneous  presence of high current and voltage during startup may cause an overstress condition to the switch. Therefore, depending on input and output voltage conditions, higher RC time constant values may be necessary to improve the ruggedness of the design.

## CAPACITOR SELECTION

Low ESR (equivalent series resistance) capacitors should be used at the output to minimize the output ripple voltage. Multi-layer  ceramic  capacitors  are  an  excellent  choice, as they have extremely low ESR and are available in very small packages. X5R dielectrics are preferred, followed by X7R, as these materials retain the capacitance over wide voltage and temperature ranges. A 4.7µF to 15µF output capacitor is sufficient for most applications, but systems with very low output currents may need only a 1µF or 2.2µF output capacitor. Solid tantalum or OS-CON capacitors can be used, but they will occupy more board area than a ceramic and will have a higher ESR. Always use a capacitor with a sufficient voltage rating.

Ceramic capacitors also make a good choice for the input decoupling capacitor, which should be placed as close as possible to the LT3471. A 4.7µF to 10µF input capacitor is sufficient for most applications. Table 2 shows a list of several ceramic capacitor manufacturers. Consult the manufacturers  for  detailed  information  on  their  entire selection of ceramic parts.

Table 2. Ceramic Capacitor Manufacturers

| Taiyo Yuden   | (408) 573-4150   | www.t-yuden.com   |
|---------------|------------------|-------------------|
| AVX           | (803) 448-9411   | www.avxcorp.com   |
| Murata        | (714) 852-2001   | www.murata.com    |

The decision to use either low ESR (ceramic) capacitors or the higher ESR (tantalum or OS-CON) capacitors can affect the stability of the overall system. The ESR of any capacitor, along with the capacitance itself, contributes a zero to the system. For the tantalum and OS-CON capacitors, this zero is located at a lower frequency due to the higher value of the ESR, while the zero of a ceramic capacitor is at a much higher frequency and can generally be ignored.

A phase lead  zero  can  be  intentionally  introduced  by  placing a capacitor (C PL ) in parallel with the resistor (R3) between VOUT  and V FB  as shown in Figure 2. The frequency of the zero is determined by the following equation.

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

<!-- image -->

C1, C2: X5R OR X7R 6.3V

C3, C4: X5R OR X7R 10V

C5: XR5 OR X7R 16V

C PL : OPTIONAL

D1, D2: ON SEMICONDUCTOR MBRM-120

L1: SUMIDA CR43-2R2

L2: SUMIDA CDRH4D18-100

L3: SUMIDA CDRH4D18-150

## Supply Current of Figure 2 During Start-Up with Soft-Start RC Network

## Supply Current of Figure 2 During Start-Up without Soft-Start RC Network

Figure 2. Li-Ion OLED Driver

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

By choosing the appropriate values for the resistor and capacitor, the zero frequency can be designed to improve the  phase  margin  of  the  overall  converter.  The  typical target  value  for  the  zero  frequency  is  between  35kHz to 55kHz. Figure 3 shows the transient response of the step-up converter from Figure 2 without the phase lead capacitor C PL . Although adequate for many applications, phase margin is not ideal as evidenced by 2-3 'bumps' in both the output voltage and inductor current. A 33pF capacitor  for  C PL   results  in  ideal  phase  margin,  which is revealed in Figure 4 as a more damped response and less overshoot.

Figure 3. Transient Response of  Figure 2's Step-Up Converter without Phase Lead Capacitor

<!-- image -->

Figure 4. Transient Response of Figure 2's Step-Up Converter with 33pF Phase Lead Capacitor

<!-- image -->

## VREG  VOLTAGE REFERENCE

Pin 3  of  the  LT3471  is  a  bandgap  voltage  reference  that  has been divided down to 1.00V and buffered for external use. This  pin  must  be  bypassed  with  at  least  0.01µF  and  no  more than 1µF. This will ensure stability as well as reduce the noise on this pin. The buffer has a built-in current limit of at least 1mA (typically 1.4mA). This not only means that you can use this pin as an external reference for supplemental circuitry, but it also means that it is possible to provide a soft-start feature if this pin is used as one of the feedback pins for the error amplifier. Normally the soft-start time will be dominated by the RC time constant discussed in the soft-start and shutdown section. However, because of the finite current limit of the buffer for the V REG  pin, it will take some time to charge up the bypass capacitor. During this time, the voltage at the V REG  pin will ramp up, and this action provides an alternate means for soft-starting the circuit. If the largest recommended bypass capacitor is used, 1µF, the worst-case (longest) soft-start function that would be provided from the V REF  pin is:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Choose the RC network such that the soft-start time is longer than this  time,  or  choose  a  smaller  bypass  capacitor for the V REF  pin (but always larger than 0.01µF) so that the RC network dominates the soft-starting of the  LT3471.  The voltage at the V REF  pin can also be divided down and used for one of the feedback pins for the error amplifier. This is especially useful in LED driver applications, where the current through the LEDs is set  using  the  voltage  reference across a sense resistor in the LED chain. Using a smaller or divided down reference leads to less wasted power in the sense resistor. See the Typical Applications section for an example of LED driving applications.

<!-- image -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## DIODE SELECTION

A  Schottky  diode  is  recommended  for  use  with  the LT3471. For high efficiency, a diode with good thermal characteristics at high currents should be used such as the On Semiconductor MBRM120. This is a 20V diode. Where the switch voltage exceeds 20V, use the MBRM140, a 40V diode. These diodes are rated to handle an average forward current of 1.0A. In applications where the average forward current of the diode is less than 0.5A, use the Philips PMEG 2005, 3005, or 4005 (a 20V, 30V or 40V diode, respectively).

## LAYOUT HINTS

The high speed operation of the LT3471 demands careful attention to board layout. You will not get advertised performance  with  careless  layout.  Figure  5  shows  the recommended component placement.

<!-- image -->

3471 F05

Figure 5. Suggested Layout Showing a Boost on SW1 and an Inverter on SW2. Note the Separate Ground Returns for All High Current Paths (Using a Multilayer Board)

<!-- image -->

## Compensation-Theory

Like  all  other  current  mode  switching  regulators,  the LT3471 needs to be compensated for stable and efficient operation. Two feedback loops are used in the LT3471: a fast current loop which does not require compensation, and a slower voltage loop which does. Standard Bode plot analysis can be used to understand and adjust the voltage feedback loop.

As with any feedback loop, identifying the gain and phase contribution of the various elements in the loop is critical. Figure 6  shows  the  key  equivalent  elements  of  a  boost  converter. Because of the fast current control loop, the power stage of the IC, inductor and diode have been replaced by the  equivalent  transconductance  amplifier  g mp .  g mp   acts  as a current source where the output current is proportional to the V C  voltage. Note that the maximum output current of g mp is finite due to the current limit in the IC.

Figure 6. Boost Converter Equivalent Model

<!-- image -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

From  Figure  6,  the  DC  gain,  poles  and  zeroes  can  be calculated as follows:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The Current Mode zero is a right half plane zero which can be an issue in feedback control design, but is manageable with proper external component selection.

Using the circuit of Figure 2 as an example, Table 3 shows the parameters used to generate the Bode plot shown in Figure 7.

Table 3. Bode Plot Parameters

| Parameter   |   Value | Units   | Comment              |
|-------------|---------|---------|----------------------|
| R L         |    20   | Ω       | Application Specific |
| C OUT       |     4.7 | µF      | Application Specific |
| R ESR       |    10   | mΩ      | Application Specific |
| R O         |     0.9 | MΩ      | Not Adjustable       |
| C C         |    90   | pF      | Not Adjustable       |
| C PL        |    33   | pF      | Adjustable           |
| R C         |    55   | kΩ      | Not Adjustable       |
| R1          |    90.9 | kΩ      | Adjustable           |
| R2          |    15   | kΩ      | Adjustable           |
| V OUT       |     7   | V       | Application Specific |
| V IN        |     3.3 | V       | Application Specific |
| g ma        |    50   | µmho    | Not Adjustable       |
| g mp        |     9.3 | mho     | Not Adjustable       |
| L           |     2.2 | µH      | Application Specific |
| f S         |     1.2 | MHz     | Not Adjustable       |

From Figure 7, the phase is  -115° when the gain reaches 0dB  giving  a  phase  margin  of  65°.  This  is  more  than adequate. The crossover frequency is 50kHz.

Figure 7. Bode Plot of 3.3V to 7V Application

<!-- image -->

## TYPICAL APPLICATIONS

## Li-Ion OLED Driver

<!-- image -->

C3, C4: X5R OR X7R 10V

C5: XR5 OR X7R 16V

L1: SUMIDA CR43-2R2

L2: SUMIDA CDRH4D18-100

C6: OPTIONAL

L3: SUMIDA CDRH4D18-150

## Li-Ion OLED Driver Efficiency

<!-- image -->

3471 TA02b

## TYPICAL APPLICATIONS

## Single Li-Ion Cell to 5V, 12V Boost Converter

<!-- image -->

C1-C3: X5R OR X7R 6.3V

C4: X5R OR X7R 16V

D1, D2: ON SEMICONDUCTOR MBRM-120

L1: SUMIDA CR43-3R3

L2: SUMIDA CR43-6R8

## TYPICAL APPLICATIONS

## Li-Ion 20 White LED Driver

<!-- image -->

## TYPICAL APPLICATIONS

## Li-Ion or 4-Cell Alkaline to 3.3V and 5V SEPIC

<!-- image -->

## PACKAGE DESCRIPTION

DD Package 10-Lead Plastic DFN (3mm ×

3mm) (Reference LTC DWG # 05-08-1699)

<!-- image -->

## RECOMMENDED SOLDER PAD PITCH AND DIMENSIONS

NOTE:

1. DRAWING TO BE MADE A JEDEC PACKAGE OUTLINE M0-229 VARIATION OF (WEED-2). CHECK THE LTC WEBSITE DATA SHEET FOR CURRENT STATUS OF VARIATION ASSIGNMENT
2. DRAWING NOT TO SCALE
3. ALL DIMENSIONS ARE IN MILLIMETERS
4. DIMENSIONS OF EXPOSED PAD ON BOTTOM OF PACKAGE DO NOT INCLUDE MOLD FLASH. MOLD FLASH, IF PRESENT, SHALL NOT EXCEED 0.15mm ON ANY SIDE
5. EXPOSED PAD SHALL BE SOLDER PLATED
6. SHADED AREA IS ONLY A REFERENCE FOR PIN 1 LOCATION ON THE TOP AND BOTTOM OF PACKAGE

Rev. C

## REVISION HISTORY (Revision history begins at Rev C)

| REV   | DATE   | DESCRIPTION                                          |   PAGE NUMBER |
|-------|--------|------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| C     | 6/25   | Updated Reference Number in the Package Description. |            15 |

## TYPICAL APPLICATIONS

## 5V to ±12V Dual Supply Boost/Inverting Converter

<!-- image -->

## RELATED PARTS

| PART NUMBER     | DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                       | COMMENTS                                                                             |
|-----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| LT1611          | 550mA (I SW ), 1.4MHz, High Efficiency Micropower Inverting DC/DC Converter                                                       | V IN : 1.1V to 10V, V OUT(MAX) = -34V, I Q = 3mA, I SD < 1µA, ThinSOT Package        |
| LT1613          | 550mA (I SW ), 1.4MHz, High Efficiency Step-Up DC/DC Converter                                                                    | V IN : 0.9V to 10V, V OUT(MAX) = 34V, I Q = 3mA, I SD < 1µA, ThinSOT Package         |
| LT1614          | 750mA (I SW ), 600kHz, High Efficiency Micropower Inverting DC/DC Converter                                                       | V IN : 1V to 12V, V OUT(MAX) = -24V, I Q = 1mA, I SD < 10µA, MS8, S8 Packages        |
| LT1615/LT1615-1 | 300mA/80mA (I SW ), High Efficiency Step-Up DC/DC Converters                                                                      | V IN = 1V to 15V, V OUT(MAX) = 34V, I Q = 20µA, I SD < 1µA, ThinSOT Package          |
| LT1617/LT1617-1 | 350mA/100mA (I SW ), High Efficiency Micropower Inverting DC/DC Converters                                                        | V IN = 1.2V to 15V, V OUT(MAX) = -34V, I Q = 20µA, I SD < 1µA, ThinSOT Package       |
| LT1930/LT1930A  | 1A (I SW ), 1.2MHz/2.2MHz, High Efficiency Step-Up DC/DC Converters                                                               | V IN : 2.6V to 16V, V OUT(MAX) = 34V, I Q = 4.2mA/5.5mA, I SD < 1µA, ThinSOT Package |
| LT1931/LT1931A  | 1A (I SW ), 1.2MHz/2.2MHz High Efficiency Micropower Inverting DC/DC Converters                                                   | V IN = 2.6V to 16V, V OUT(MAX) = -34V, I Q = 5.8mA, I SD < 1µA, ThinSOT Package      |
| LT1943 (Quad)   | Quad Boost, 2.6A Buck, 2.6A Boost, 0.3A Boost, 0.4A Inverter 1.2MHz TFT DC/DC Converter                                           | V IN = 4.5V to 22V, V OUT(MAX) = 40V, I Q = 10µA, I SD < 35µA, TSSOP28E Package      |
| LT1945 (Dual)   | Dual Output, Boost/Inverter, 350mA (I SW ), Constant Off-Time, High Efficiency Step-Up DC/DC Converter                            | V IN = 1.2V to 15V, V OUT(MAX) = ±34V, I Q = 40µA, I SD < 1µA, 10-Lead MS Package    |
| LT1946/LT1946A  | 1.5A (I SW ), 1.2MHz/2.7MHz, High Efficiency Step-Up DC/DC Converters                                                             | V IN : 2.45V to 16V, V OUT(MAX) = 34V, I Q = 3.2mA, I SD < 1µA, MS8 Package          |
| LT3436          | 3A (I SW ), 1MHz, 34V Step-Up DC/DC Converter                                                                                     | V IN : 3V to 25V, V OUT(MAX) = 34V, I Q = 0.9mA, I SD < 6µA, TSSOP16E Package        |
| LT3462/LT3462A  | 300mA (I SW ), 1.2MHz/2.7MHz, High Efficiency Inverting DC/DC Converters with Integrated Schottkys                                | V IN = 2.5V to 16V, V OUT(MAX) = -38V, I Q = 2.9mA, I SD < 1µA, ThinSOT Package      |
| LT3463/LT3463A  | Dual Output, Boost/Inverter, 250mA (I SW ), Constant Off-Time, High Efficiency Step-Up DC/DC Converters with Integrated Schottkys | V IN = 2.3V to 15V, V OUT(MAX) = ±40V, I Q = 40µA, I SD < 1µA, DFN Package           |
| LT3464          | 85mA (I SW ), High Efficiency Step-Up DC/DC Converter with Integrated Schottky and PNP Disconnect                                 | V IN = 2.3V to 10V, V OUT(MAX) = 34V, I Q = 25µA, I SD < 1µA, ThinSOT Package        |

<!-- image -->

For more information www.analog.com

C1, C2: X5R OR X7R 6.3V

C3, C4: X5R OR X7R 16V

C5: X5R OR X7R 25V

D1, D2: ON SEMICONDUCTOR MBRM-120

L1: SUMIDA CR43-10

L2, L3: SUMIDA CLS63-10