<!-- lastmod 2025-06-29 -->
<!-- image -->

## FEATURES

- n 3V to 40V Input Voltage Range
- n 500mA Output Current
- n Switching Frequency: 2.2MHz (LT3502A), 1.1MHz (LT3502)
- n 800mV Feedback Voltage
- n Short-Circuit Robust
- n Soft-Start
- n Low Shutdown Current: &lt;2µA
- n Internally Compensated
- n Internal Boost Diode
- n Thermally Enhanced 2mm × 2mm 8-Lead DFN and 10-Lead MS10 Package
- n AEC-Q100 Compliant with Exception
- n HBM ESD Classification Level 1C

## APPLICATIONS

- n Automotive Systems
- n Battery-Powered Equipment
- n Wall T ransformer Regulation
- n Distributed Supply Regulation

## TYPICAL APPLICATION

## 3.3V Step-Down Converter

<!-- image -->

## 1.1MHz/2.2MHz, 500mA Step-Down Regulators in 2mm × 2mm DFN and MS10

## DESCRIPTION

The LT ® 3502/LT3502A are current mode PWM step-down DC/DC converters with an internal 500mA power switch, in  tiny  8-lead  2mm × 2mm  DFN  and  10-lead  MS10 packages. The wide input voltage range of  3V  to  40V  makes the L T3502/L T3502A suitable for regulating power from a wide variety of sources, including 24V industrial supplies and automotive batteries.  Its  high  operating  frequency allows the use of tiny, low cost inductors and capacitors, resulting  in  a  very  small  solution.  Constant  frequency above the AM band avoids interfering with radio reception, making the LT3502A particularly suitable for automotive applications.

Cycle-by-cycle  current  limit  and  frequency  foldback provide  protection  against  shorted  outputs.  Soft-start and  frequency  foldback  eliminates  input  current  surge during start-up. DA current sense provides further protection in fault conditions. An internal boost diode reduces component count.

All registered trademarks and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

## LT3502A 12V IN  Efficiency

<!-- image -->

## ABSOLUTE MAXIMUM RATINGS (Note 1)

| Input Voltage (V IN )....................................................40V    | BD Voltage ..................................................................7V   |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| BOOST Voltage .........................................................50V      | Operating Junction Temperature Range (Note 2)                                     |
| BOOST Pin Above SW Pin...........................................7V             | LT3502AE, LT3502E..........................-40°C to 125°C                         |
| FB Voltage...................................................................6V | LT3502AI, LT3502I............................-40°C to 125°C                       |
| SHDN Voltage ...........................................................40V     | Storage Temperature Range ..................-65°C to 150°C                        |

## PIN CONFIGURATION

<!-- image -->

## ORDER INFORMATION

| LEAD FREE FINISH      | TAPE AND REEL         | PART MARKING*         | PACKAGE DESCRIPTION          | TEMPERATURE RANGE     |
|-----------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|------------------------------|-----------------------|
| LT3502EDC#TRMPBF      | LT3502EDC#TRPBF       | LCLV                  | 8-Lead 2mm × 2mm Plastic DFN | -40°C to 125°C        |
| LT3502IDC#TRMPBF      | LT3502IDC#TRPBF       | LCLV                  | 8-Lead 2mm × 2mm Plastic DFN | -40°C to 125°C        |
| LT3502AEDC#TRMPBF     | LT3502AEDC#TRPBF      | LCLT                  | 8-Lead 2mm × 2mm Plastic DFN | -40°C to 125°C        |
| LT3502AIDC#TRMPBF     | LT3502AIDC#TRPBF      | LCLT                  | 8-Lead 2mm × 2mm Plastic DFN | -40°C to 125°C        |
| LT3502EMS#PBF         | LT3502EMS#TRPBF       | LTDTR                 | 10-Lead Plastic MSOP         | -40°C to 125°C        |
| LT3502IMS#PBF         | LT3502IMS#TRPBF       | LTDTR                 | 10-Lead Plastic MSOP         | -40°C to 125°C        |
| LT3502AEMS#PBF        | LT3502AEMS#TRPBF      | LTDTS                 | 10-Lead Plastic MSOP         | -40°C to 125°C        |
| LT3502AIMS#PBF        | LT3502AIMS#TRPBF      | LTDTS                 | 10-Lead Plastic MSOP         | -40°C to 125°C        |
| AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTS** | AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTS** | AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTS** | AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTS**        | AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTS** |
| LT3502AIDC#WTRMPBF    | LT3502AIDC#WTRPBF     | LCLT                  | 8-Lead 2mm × 2mm Plastic DFN | -40°C to 125°C        |

For more information on lead free part marking, go to: www.adi.com/leadfree/

For more information on tape and reel specifications, go to: www.adi.com/tapeandreel/

*The temperature grade is identified by a label on the shipping container . Tape and reel specifications. Some packages are available in 500 unit reels through designated sales channels with the #TRMPBF suffix.

** Versions of this part are available with controlled manufacturing to support the quality and reliability requirements of automotive applications. These models are designated with a #W suffix. Only the automotive grade products shown are available for use in automotive applications. Contact your local Analog Devices account representative for specific product ordering information and to obtain the specific Automotive Reliability reports for these models.

<!-- image -->

## ELECTROSTATIC DISCHARGE RATINGS

## LT3502A, 8-Lead Plastic DFN

| ESD MODEL   | WITHSTAND THRESHOLD (V)   | CLASS   |
|-------------|---------------------------|---------|
| HBM*        | ±1500                     | 1C      |
| FICDM       | ±1250                     | C3      |

## ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS

The

l

## ESD CAUTION

<!-- image -->

ESD (electrostatic discharge) sensitive device. Charged devices and circuit boards can discharge without detection. Although this product features patented or proprietary protection circuity, damage may occur on devices subjected to high energy ESD. Therefore, proper ESD precautions should be taken to avoid performance degradtion or loss of functionality denotes the specifications which apply over the full operating

temperature range, otherwise specifications are at T A  = 25°C. V IN  = 10V, V SHDN = 5V, V BOOST  = 15V.

| PARAMETER                          | CONDITIONS                                                                                |     | MIN                    | TYP               | MAX                    | UNITS           |
|------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----|------------------------|-------------------|------------------------|-----------------|
| Undervoltage Lockout               |                                                                                           |     | 2.6                    | 2.8               | 3                      | V               |
| Quiescent Current at Shutdown      | V SHDN = 0V                                                                               |     |                        | 0.5               | 2                      | µA              |
| Quiescent Current                  | Not Switching                                                                             |     |                        | 1.5               | 2                      | mA              |
| Feedback Voltage                   | 2mm × 2mm DFN 2mm × 2mm DFN MS10 MS10                                                     | l l | 0.785 0.79 0.780 0.786 | 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8   | 0.813 0.81 0.816 0.813 | V V V V         |
| Reference Voltage Line Regulation  |                                                                                           |     | 0.005                  | 0.005             | 0.005                  | %/V             |
| FB Pin Bias Current                | (Note 5)                                                                                  | l   |                        | 15                | 50                     | nA              |
| Switching Frequency                | I DA < 500mA (LT3502A) I DA < 500mA (LT3502A) I DA < 500mA (LT3502) I DA < 500mA (LT3502) | l l | 1.9 1.8 0.9 0.8        | 2.25 2.25 1.1 1.1 | 2.7 2.8 1.3 1.4        | MHz MHz MHz MHz |
| Maximum Duty Cycle                 | 100mA Load (LT3502A) 100mA Load (LT3502)                                                  |     | 70 80                  | 80 90             |                        | % %             |
| Switch V CESAT                     | I SW = 500mA                                                                              |     |                        | 450               |                        | mV              |
| Switch Current Limit               | (Note 3)                                                                                  |     | 0.75                   | 0.9               | 1.1                    | A               |
| Switch Active Current              | SW = 10V (Note 4) SW = 0V (Note 5)                                                        |     |                        | 95 8              | 130 30                 | µA µA           |
| BOOST Pin Current                  | I SW = 500mA                                                                              |     |                        | 10                | 13                     | mA              |
| Minimum BOOST Voltage Above Switch | I SW = 500mA                                                                              |     |                        | 1.9               | 2.2                    | V               |
| BOOST Schottky Forward Drop        | I OUT = 100mA                                                                             |     |                        | 0.8               | 1                      | V               |
| DA Pin Current to Stop OSC         |                                                                                           |     | 500                    | 650               |                        | mA              |
| SHDN Bias Current                  | V SHDN = 5V V SHDN = 0V                                                                   |     |                        | 55                | 80 1                   | µA µA           |
| SHDN Input Voltage High            |                                                                                           |     | 2                      |                   |                        | V               |
| SHDN Input Voltage Low             |                                                                                           |     |                        |                   | 0.3                    | V               |

Note 1: Stresses beyond those listed under Absolute Maximum Ratings may cause permanent damage to the device. Exposure to any Absolute Maximum Rating condition for extended periods may affect device reliability and lifetime.

Note 2. The LT3502EDC and LT3502AEDC are guaranteed to meet performance specifications from 0°C to 125°C junction temperature range. Specifications over the -40°C to 125°C operating junction temperature range are assured by design, characterization and correlation with statistical process controls. The L T3502IDC and L T3502AIDC are guaranteed over the - 40°C to 125°C operating junction temperature range.

Note 3: Current limit guaranteed by design and/or correlation to static test. Slope compensation reduces current limit at higher duty cycle.

Note 4: Current flows into pin.

Note 5: Current flows out of pin.

Rev. F

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS (T A  = 25°C unless otherwise noted)

<!-- image -->

3502 G01

<!-- image -->

3502 G04

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

3502 G02

LT3502A Maximum Load Current VOUT  = 3.3V, L = 6.8µH

<!-- image -->

3502 G05

LT3502 Maximum Load Current VOUT  = 5V, L = 22µH

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

3502 G03

LT3502A Maximum Load Current VOUT  = 5V, L = 10µH

<!-- image -->

Switch Voltage Drop

3502 G09

<!-- image -->

Rev. F

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS (T A  = 25°C unless otherwise noted)

<!-- image -->

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS (T A  = 25°C unless otherwise noted)

LT3502A Typical Minimum Input Voltage (V OUT  = 3.3V)

<!-- image -->

LT3502 Typical Minimum Input Voltage (V OUT  = 5V)

<!-- image -->

LT3502A Typical Minimum Input Voltage (V OUT  = 5V)

<!-- image -->

3502 G20

## Continuous Mode Waveform

<!-- image -->

LT3502 Typical Minimum Input Voltage (V OUT  = 3.3V)

<!-- image -->

## Discontinuous Mode Waveform

<!-- image -->

## PIN FUNCTIONS (DFN/MS)

VIN  (Pin 1/Pin 10): The V IN   pin supplies current to the LT3502/LT3502A's internal regulator and to the internal power switch. This pin must be locally bypassed.

BD (Pin 2/Pin 8): The BD pin is used to provide current to the internal boost Schottky diode.

FB  (Pin  3/Pin  7): The  L T3502/L T3502A  regulate  their feedback pin to 0.8V. Connect the feedback resistor divider tap to this pin. Set the output voltage according to VOUT  = 0.8 (1 + R1/R2). A good value for R2 is 10k.

SHDN (Pin  4/Pin 6): The SHDN pin  is  used  to  put  the LT3502 in shutdown mode. Tie to ground to shut down the  LT3502/LT3502A.  Tie  to  2V  or  more  for  normal operation. If the shutdown feature is not used, tie this pin to the V IN pin. The SHDN pin also provides soft-start and frequency foldback. To use the soft-start feature, connect R3 and C4 to the SHDN pin. SHDN Pin voltage should not be higher than V IN .

GND (Pin 5/Pin 5): Ground Pin.

DA (Pin 6/Pin 4): Connect the catch diode (D1) anode to this pin. This pin is used to provide frequency foldback in extreme situations.

BOOST (Pin 7/Pin 2): The BOOST pin is used to provide a drive voltage, higher than the input voltage, to the internal bipolar  NPN  power  switch.  Connect  a  boost  capacitor  from this pin to SW Pin.

SW (Pin 8/Pin 1): The SW pin is the output of the internal power switch. Connect this pin to the inductor, catch diode and boost capacitor.

## BLOCK DIAGRAM

<!-- image -->

## OPERATION

The  LT3502/LT3502A  are  constant  frequency,  current mode step-down regulators. An oscillator enables an RS flip-flop, turning on the internal 500mA power switch Q1. An amplifier and comparator monitor the current flowing between the V IN  and SW pins, turning the switch off when this current reaches a level determined by the voltage at VC .  An  error  amplifier  measures  the  output  voltage  through an external resistor divider tied to the FB pin and servos the V C node. If the error amplifier's output increases, more current  is  delivered  to  the  output;  if  it  decreases,  less current is  delivered.  An  active  clamp  (not  shown)  on  the  V C node provides current limit. The V C  node is also clamped to the voltage on the SHDN pin; soft-start is implemented by generating a voltage ramp at the SHDN pin using an external  resistor  and  capacitor.  The SHDN pin  voltage during soft-start also reduces the oscillator frequency to avoid hitting current limit during start-up.

An internal regulator provides power to the control circuitry. This regulator includes an undervoltage lockout to prevent switching when V IN  is less than ~3V. The SHDN pin is used to place the LT3502/LT3502A in shutdown, disconnecting the output and reducing the input current to less than 2µA.

The switch driver operates from either V IN  or from the BOOST pin. An external capacitor and the internal diode are used to generate a voltage at the BOOST pin that is higher  than  the  input  supply.  This  allows  the  driver  to fully saturate the internal bipolar NPN power switch for efficient operation.

A  comparator  monitors  the  current  flowing  through the catch diode via the DA pin and reduces the LT3502/ LT3502A's operating frequency when the DA pin current exceeds the 650mA valley current limit. This frequency foldback  helps  to  control  the  output  current  in  fault conditions such as shorted output with high input voltage. The DA comparator works in conjunction with the switch peak current limit comparator to determine the maximum deliverable current of the LT3502/LT3502A. The peak current limit comparator is used in normal current mode operations and is used to turn off the switch. The DA valley  current  comparator  monitors  the  catch  diode  current and will delay switching until the catch diode current is below the 650mA limit. Maximum deliverable current to the output is therefore limited by both switch peak current limit and DA valley current limit.

<!-- image -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## FB Resistor Network

The output voltage is programmed with a resistor divider between the output and the FB pin. Choose the 1% resistors according to:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

R2 should be 20k or less to avoid bias current errors. Reference designators refer to the Block Diagram.

## Input Voltage Range

The input voltage range for the L T3502/L T3502A applications depends on the output voltage and on the absolute maximum ratings of the V IN  and BOOST pins.

The minimum input voltage is determined by either the LT3502/LT3502A's minimum operating voltage of 3V, or by its maximum duty cycle. The duty cycle is the fraction of time that the internal switch is on and is determined by the input and output voltages:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where V D  is the forward voltage drop of the catch diode (~0.4V) and V SW  is the voltage drop of the internal switch (~0.45V at maximum load). This leads to a minimum input voltage of:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

with  DC MAX   =  0.80  for  the  L T3502A  and  0.90  for  the  L T3502.

The  maximum  input  voltage  is  determined  by  the absolute maximum ratings of the V IN  and BOOST pins. For fixed frequency operation, the maximum input voltage is determined by the minimum duty cycle DC MIN :

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

DCMIN  = 0.15 for the L T3502A and 0.08 for the L T3502. Note that this is a restriction on the operating input volt- age for fixed frequency operation; the circuit will tolerate transient inputs up to the absolute maximum ratings of the VIN   and  BOOST  pins.  The  input  voltage  should  be  limited  to the V IN   operating range (40V) during overload conditions.

## Minimum On-Time

The LT3502/LT3502A will still regulate the output at input voltages that exceed V IN(MAX)  (up to 40V), however, the output  voltage  ripple  increases  as  the  input  voltage  is increased.

As the input voltage is increased, the part is required to switch for shorter periods of time. Delays associated with turning off the power switch dictate the minimum on-time of the part.  The  minimum on-time for the L T3502/L T3502A is 60ns (Figure 1).

When the required on-time decreases below the mini-

Figure 1. Continuous Mode Operation Near Minimum On-Time of 60ns

<!-- image -->

mum on-time of 60ns, instead of the switch pulse width becoming narrower to accommodate the lower duty cycle requirement, the switch pulse width remains fixed at 60ns. The inductor current ramps up to a value exceeding the load current and the output ripple increases. The part then remains off until the output voltage dips below the programmed value before it begins switching again (Figure 2).

Provided that the load can tolerate the increased output voltage ripple  and  that  the  components  have  been  properly selected, operation above V IN(MAX)  is safe and will not damage the part.

Rev. F As the input voltage increases, the inductor current ramps up quicker, the number of skipped pulses increases and

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

Figure 2. Pulse-Skipping Occurs when Required On-Time is Below 60ns

<!-- image -->

the output voltage ripple increases. For operation above VIN(MAX)   the  only  component  requirement  is  that  the components  be  adequately  rated  for  operation  at  the intended voltage levels.

Inductor current may reach current limit when operating in pulse-skipping mode with small valued inductors. In this case, the L T3502/L T3502A will periodically reduce its frequency to keep the inductor valley current to 650mA (Figure 3). Peak inductor current is therefore peak current plus minimum switch delay:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The part is robust enough to survive prolonged operation under these conditions as long as the peak inductor current does not exceed 1.2A. Inductor current saturation and junction temperature may further limit performance during this operating regime.

## Inductor Selection and Maximum Output Current

Table 1

Figure 3. Pulse-Skipping with Large Load Current Will be Limited by the DA Valley Current Limit. Notice the Flat Inductor Valley Current and Reduced Switching Frequency

<!-- image -->

A good first choice for the inductor value is:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where V D  is the voltage drop of the catch diode (~0.4V) and L is in µH. With this value there will be no subharmonic oscillation  for  applications  with  50%  or  greater  duty cycle. The inductor's RMS current rating must be greater than the maximum load current and its saturation current should be about 30% higher. For robust operation during fault conditions, the saturation current should be above 1.2A. To keep efficiency high, the series resistance (DCR) should be less than 0.1Ω. Table 1 lists several vendors and types that are suitable.

There  are  several  graphs  in  the  Typical  Performance Characteristics section of this data sheet that show the maximum load current as a function of input voltage and inductor value for several popular output voltages. Low inductance  may  result  in  discontinuous  mode  operation, which is okay, but further reduces maximum load

| VENDOR           | URL               | PART SERIES                  | INDUCTANCE RATE (µH)           | SIZE (mm)                     |
|------------------|-------------------|------------------------------|--------------------------------|-------------------------------|
| Sumida           | www.sumida.com    | CDRH4D28 CDRH5D28 CDRH8D28   | 1.2 to 4.7 2.5 to 10 2.5 to 33 | 4.5 × 4.5 5.5 × 5.5 8.3 × 8.3 |
| Toko             | www.toko.com      | A916CY D585LC                | 2 to 12 1.1 to 39              | 6.3 × 6.2 8.1 × 8             |
| Würth Elektronik | www.we-online.com | WE-TPC(M) WE-PD2(M) WE-PD(S) | 1 to 10 2.2 to 22 1 to 27      | 4.8 × 4.8 5.2 × 5.8 7.3 × 7.3 |

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

current. For details of the maximum output current and discontinuous  mode  operation,  see  Linear  Technology Application Note 44.

## Catch Diode

A low capacitance 500mA Schottky diode is recommended for the catch diode, D1. The diode must have a reverse voltage rating equal to or greater than the maximum input voltage.  The  Diodes  Inc.  SBR1U40LP ,  ON  Semi  MBRM140, and Diodes Inc. DFLS140 are good choices for the catch diode.

## Input Capacitor

Bypass the input of the L T3502/L T3502A circuit with a 1µF or higher value ceramic capacitor of X7R or X5R type. Y5V types  have  poor  performance  over  temperature  and  applied voltage and should not be used. A 1µF ceramic is adequate to bypass the LT3502/LT3502A and will easily handle the ripple  current.  However, if the input power source has high impedance, or there is significant inductance due to long wires or cables, additional bulk capacitance may be necessary. This can be provided with a low performance electrolytic capacitor .

Step-down regulators draw current from the input supply in pulses with very fast rise and fall times. The input capacitor is required to reduce the resulting voltage ripple at the L T3502/L T3502A and to force this very high frequency switching current into a tight local loop, minimizing EMI. A 1µF capacitor is capable of this task, but only if it is placed close to the L T3502/L T3502A and the catch diode (see the  PCB  Layout  section).  A  second  precaution  regarding the ceramic input capacitor concerns the maximum input voltage rating of the LT3502/LT3502A. A ceramic input capacitor combined with trace or cable inductance forms a high quality (underdamped) tank circuit. If the LT3502/LT3502A circuit is plugged into a live supply, the input voltage can ring to twice its nominal value, possibly exceeding the L T3502/L T3502A's  voltage  rating.  This  situation is easily avoided; see the Hot Plugging Safely section.

## Output Capacitor

The output capacitor has two essential functions. Along with the inductor, it filters the square wave generated by the LT3502/LT3502A to produce the DC output. In this role it determines the output ripple so low impedance at the switching frequency is important. The second function is to store energy in order to satisfy transient loads and stabilize the L T3502/L T3502A's control loop. Ceramic capacitors  have  very  low  equivalent  series  resistance  (ESR) and provide the best ripple performance. A good value is:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where C OUT  is in µF . Use an X5R or X7R type and keep in  mind that a ceramic capacitor biased with V OUT  will have less than its nominal capacitance. This choice will provide low output ripple and good transient response. Transient performance can be improved with a high value capacitor, but a phase lead capacitor across the feedback resistor, R1, may be required to get the full benefit (see the Compensation section).

For  small  size,  the  output  capacitor  can  be  chosen according to:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where C OUT  is in µF. However , using an output capacitor this  small  results  in  an  increased  loop  crossover  frequency and increased sensitivity to noise.

High performance electrolytic capacitors can be used for the output capacitor. Low ESR is important, so choose one that is intended for use in switching regulators. The ESR should be specified by the supplier and should be 0.1Ω or less. Such a capacitor will be larger than a ceramic capacitor and will have a larger capacitance, because the capacitor must be large to achieve low ESR. Table 2 lists several capacitor vendors.

Figure 4 shows the transient response of the L T3502A with

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

| Table 2 VENDOR   | PHONE          | URL                 | PART SERIES               | COMMENTS   |
|------------------|----------------|---------------------|---------------------------|------------|
| Panasonic        | (714) 373-7366 | www.panasonic.com   | Ceramic Polymer, Tantalum | EEF Series |
| Kemet            | (864) 963-6300 | www.kemet.com       | Ceramic, Tantalum         | T494,T495  |
| Sanyo            | (408)794-9714  | www.sanyovideo.com  | Ceramic Polymer, Tantalum | POSCAP     |
| Murata           | (404) 436-1300 | www.murata.com      | Ceramic                   |            |
| AVX              |                | www.avxcorp.com     | Ceramic, Tantalum         | TPS Series |
| Taiyo Yuden      | (864) 963-6300 | www.taiyo-yuden.com | Ceramic                   |            |

several output capacitor choices. The output is 3.3V. The load current is stepped from 150mA to 400mA and back to 150mA,  and  the  oscilloscope  traces  show  the  output  voltage. The upper photo shows the recommended value. The second photo  shows  the  improved  response  (less  voltage  drop) resulting from a larger output capacitor and a phase lead capacitor. The last photo shows the response to a high performance electrolytic capacitor.  T ransient  performance is improved due to the large output capacitance.

## BOOST Pin Considerations

Capacitor  C3  and  the  internal  boost  diode  are  used  to generate  a  boost  voltage  that  is  higher  than  the  input voltage. In most cases a 0.1μF capacitor will work well. Figure 5 shows two ways to arrange the boost circuit. The BOOST pin must be at least 2.2V above the SW pin for best efficiency. For outputs of 3V and above, the standard circuit (Figure 5a) is best. For outputs less than 3V and above 2.5V, place a discrete Schottky diode (such as the BAT54) in parallel with the internal diode to reduce V D .  The following equations can be used to calculate and minimize boost capacitance in μF:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

VD is the forward drop of the boost diode, and V CATCH  is the forward drop of the catch diode (D1).

For lower output voltages the BD pin can be tied to an external  voltage  source  with  adequate  local  bypassing (Figure 5b). The above equations still apply for calculating the optimal boost capacitor for the chosen BD voltage. The absence of BD voltage during start-up will increase minimum voltage to start and reduce efficiency. You must also be sure that the maximum voltage rating of BOOST pin is not exceeded.

The minimum operating voltage of an LT3502/LT3502A application is limited by the undervoltage lockout (3V) and by the maximum duty cycle as outlined above. For proper start-up, the minimum input voltage is also limited by the boost circuit. If the input voltage is ramped slowly, or the LT3502/LT3502A is turned on with its SHDN pin when the output is already in regulation, then the boost capacitor may not be fully charged. Because the boost capacitor is charged with the energy stored in the inductor, the circuit will rely on some minimum load current to get the boost circuit running properly. This minimum load will depend on the input and output voltages, and on the arrangement of the boost circuit. The minimum load generally goes to zero once the circuit has started. Figure 6 shows plots of minimum load to start and to run as a function of input voltage. In many cases the discharged output capacitor will present a load to the switcher which will allow it to start. The plots show the worst-case situation where V IN is ramping very slowly. At light loads, the inductor current becomes discontinuous and the effective duty cycle can be very high. This reduces the minimum input voltage to approximately 400mV above V OUT . At  higher  load  currents, the inductor current is continuous and the duty cycle is limited  by  the  maximum  duty  cycle  of  the  L T3502/L T3502A, requiring a higher input voltage to maintain regulation.

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

<!-- image -->

Figure 4. T ransient Load Response of the LT3502A with Different Output Capacitors as the Load Current is Stepped from 150mA to 400mA. V IN  = 12V, V OUT  = 3.3V, L = 6.8µH

<!-- image -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

(6a) LT3502A Typical Minimum Input Voltage, V OUT  = 3.3V

<!-- image -->

(6c) LT3502 Typical Minimum Input Voltage, V OUT  = 3.3V

<!-- image -->

## Soft-Start

The SHDN pin  can  be  used  to  soft  start  the  L T3502/ LT3502A,  reducing  the  maximum  input  current  during start-up. The SHDN pin is driven through an external RC filter  to  create  a  voltage  ramp  at  this  pin.  Figure  7  shows  the start-up waveforms with and without the soft-start circuit. By choosing a large RC time constant, the peak start-up current can be reduced to the current that is required to regulate the output, with no overshoot. Choose the value of the resistor so that it can supply 80µA when the SHDN pin reaches 2V.

Figure 6

## Short and Reverse Protection

If the inductor is chosen so that it won't saturate excessively, the L T3502/L T3502A will tolerate a shorted output. When operating in short-circuit condition, the LT3502/ LT3502A will reduce their frequency until the valley current is 650mA (Figure 8a). There is another situation to consider in systems where the output will be held high when the input to the L T3502/L T3502A is absent. This may occur in battery charging applications or in battery backup systems where a battery or some other supply is diode OR-ed with the LT3502/LT3502A's output. If the V IN  pin is allowed to float and the SHDN pin is held high (either by a

(6b) LT3502A Typical Minimum Input Voltage, V OUT  = 5V

<!-- image -->

(6d) LT3502 Typical Minimum Input Voltage, V OUT  = 5V

<!-- image -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

<!-- image -->

Figure 7. To Soft-Start the L T3502A, Add a Resistor and Capacitor to the SHDN Pin

Figure 8a. The LT3502A Reduces its Frequency to Below 500kHz to Protect Against Shorted Output with 40V Input

<!-- image -->

Figure 8b. Diode D4 Prevents a Shorted Input from Discharging a Backup Battery Tied to the Output; it Also Protects the Circuit from a Reversed Input. The LT3502/LT3502A Runs Only When the Input is Present

<!-- image -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

logic signal or because it is tied to V IN ), then the L T3502/ LT3502A's internal circuitry will pull its quiescent current through its SW pin. This is fine if your system can tolerate a few mA in this state. If you ground the SHDN pin, the SW pin current will drop to essentially zero. However, if the V IN  pin is grounded while the output is held high, then parasitic diodes inside the L T3502/L T3502A can pull large currents from the output through the SW pin and the V IN pin. Figure 8b shows a circuit that will run only when the input voltage is present and that protects against a shorted or reversed input.

## Hot Plugging Safely

The small size, robustness and low impedance of ceramic capacitors make them an attractive option for the input bypass capacitor of LT3502/LT3502A circuits. However, these  capacitors  can  cause  problems  if  the  L T3502/L T3502A

are  plugged  into  a  live  supply  (see  Linear  Technology Application Note 88 for a complete discussion). The low loss ceramic capacitor combined with stray inductance in series with the power source forms an underdamped tank circuit, and the voltage at the V IN pin of the L T3502/ LT3502A can ring to twice the nominal input voltage, possibly  exceeding  the  L T3502/L T3502A's  rating  and  damaging the part. If the input supply is poorly controlled or the user will be plugging the LT3502/LT3502A into an energized supply, the input network should be designed to prevent this overshoot. Figure 9 shows the waveforms that result when an LT3502/LT3502A circuit is connected to a 24V supply through six feet of 24-gauge twisted pair. The first plot is the response with a 2.2µF ceramic capacitor at the input. The input voltage rings as high as 35V and the input current peaks at 20A. One method of damping the tank circuit is to add another capacitor with a series resistor to

Figure 9. A Well Chosen Input Network Prevents Input Voltage Overshoot and Ensures Reliable Operation When the LT3502 is Connected to a Live Supply

<!-- image -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

the circuit. In Figure 9b an aluminum electrolytic capacitor has been added. This capacitor's high equivalent series resistance damps the circuit and eliminates the voltage overshoot. The extra capacitor improves low frequency ripple  filtering  and  can  slightly  improve  the  efficiency  of  the circuit,  though  it  is  likely  to  be  the  largest  component  in  the circuit. An alternative solution is shown in Figure 9c. A 1Ω resistor is added in series with the input to eliminate the voltage overshoot (it also reduces the peak input current). A 0.1µF capacitor improves high frequency filtering. This solution is smaller and less expensive than the electrolytic capacitor. For high input voltages its impact on efficiency is minor , reducing efficiency less than one half percent for a 5V output at full load operating from 24V.

## Frequency Compensation

The LT3502/LT3502A use current mode control to regulate the  output.  This  simplifies  loop  compensation.  In  particular, the  L T3502/L T3502A  does  not  require  the  ESR  of  the  output capacitor  for  stability  allowing  the  use  of  ceramic  capacitors to achieve low output ripple and small circuit size.

Figure  10  shows  an  equivalent  circuit  for  the  L T3502/ LT3502A control loop.  The  error  amp  is  a  transconductance amplifier with finite output impedance. The power section, consisting of the modulator, power switch and inductor, is modeled as a transconductance amplifier generating an output current proportional to the voltage at the V C  node. Note  that  the  output  capacitor  integrates  this  current,

Figure 10. Model for Loop Response

<!-- image -->

and that the capacitor on the V C  node (C C ) integrates the error amplifier output current, resulting in two poles in the loop. R C  provides a zero. With the recommended output capacitor , the loop crossover occurs above the R C C C zero. This simple model works well as long as the value of the inductor is not too high and the loop crossover frequency is much lower than the switching frequency. With a larger ceramic capacitor (very low ESR), crossover may be lower and  a  phase  lead  capacitor  (C PL )  across  the  feedback divider  may  improve  the  phase  margin  and  transient response. Large electrolytic capacitors may have an ESR large enough to create an additional zero, and the phase lead may not be necessary.

If the output capacitor is different than the recommended capacitor, stability should be checked across all operating conditions, including load current, input voltage and temperature.  The  LT1375  data  sheet  contains  a  more thorough discussion of loop compensation and describes how to test the stability using a transient load.

## PCB Layout

For  proper  operation  and  minimum  EMI,  care  must be taken during printed circuit board layout. Figure 11 shows  the  recommended  component  placement  with trace,  ground  plane  and  via  locations.  Note  that  large, switched currents flow in the LT3502/LT3502A's V IN  and SW pins, the catch diode (D1) and the input capacitor (C2).

Figure 11

<!-- image -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

The  loop  formed  by  these  components  should  be  as small as possible and tied to system ground in only one place. These components, along with the inductor and output capacitor, should be placed on the same side of the circuit board, and their connections should be made on that layer. Place a local, unbroken ground plane below these components, and tie this ground plane to system ground at one location, ideally at the ground terminal of the output capacitor C1. The SW and BOOST nodes should be as small as possible. Finally, keep the FB node small so that the ground pin and ground traces will shield it from the SW and BOOST nodes. Include vias near the exposed GND pad of the LT3502/LT3502A to help remove heat from the LT3502/LT3502A to the ground plane.

## High Temperature Considerations

The die temperature of the L T3502/L T3502A must be lower than the maximum rating of 125°C. This is generally not a concern unless the ambient temperature is above 85°C. For higher temperatures, care should be taken in the layout of the circuit to ensure good heat sinking of the L T3502/ LT3502A. The maximum load current should be derated as the ambient temperature approaches 125°C. The die temperature is calculated by multiplying the L T3502/L T3502A power dissipation by the thermal resistance from junction to ambient. Power dissipation within the L T3502/L T3502A can be estimated by calculating the total power loss from an efficiency  measurement  and  subtracting  the  catch  diode loss.  Thermal  resistance  depends  on  the  layout  of  the circuit board, but 102°C/W and 110ºC/W are typical for the (2mm × 2mm) DFN and MS10 packages respectively.

## Outputs Greater Than 7V

Note that for outputs above 7V, the input voltage range will be limited by the maximum rating of the BOOST pin. The sum of input  and  output  voltages  cannot  exceed  the  BOOST pin's 50V rating. The 15V circuit (Figure 12) shows how to overcome this limitation using an additional Zener diode.

## Other Linear Technology Publications

Application Notes AN19, AN35 and AN44 contain more detailed  descriptions  and  design  information  for  Buck regulators  and  other  switching  regulators.  The  L T1376 data  sheet  has  a  more  extensive  discussion  of  output ripple,  loop  compensation and stability testing. Design Note 100 shows how to generate a bipolar output supply using a buck regulator.

Figure 12. 15V Step-Down Converter

<!-- image -->

## TYPICAL APPLICATIONS

## 0.8V Step-Down Converter

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

## 1.8V Step-Down Converter

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

## TYPICAL APPLICATIONS

## 2.5V Step-Down Converter

<!-- image -->

## 3.3V Step-Down Converter

<!-- image -->

## PACKAGE DESCRIPTION

## DC8 Package

## 8-Lead Plastic DFN (2mm × 2mm)

(Reference LTC DWG # 05-08-1719 Rev A)

<!-- image -->

RECOMMENDED SOLDER PAD PITCH AND DIMENSIONS

APPLY SOLDER MASK TO AREAS THAT ARE NOT SOLDERED

NOTE:

<!-- image -->

1. DRAWING IS NOT A JEDEC PACKAGE OUTLINE
2.   DRAWING NOT TO SCALE
3. ALL DIMENSIONS ARE IN MILLIMETERS
4. DIMENSIONS OF EXPOSED PAD ON BOTTOM OF PACKAGE DO NOT INCLUDE MOLD FLASH. MOLD FLASH, IF PRESENT, SHALL NOT EXCEED 0.15mm ON ANY SIDE
5. EXPOSED PAD SHALL BE SOLDER PLATED
6. SHADED AREA IS ONLY A REFERENCE FOR PIN 1 LOCATION ON THE TOP AND BOTTOM OF PACKAGE

## PACKAGE DESCRIPTION

## MS Package 10-Lead Plastic MSOP

(Reference LTC DWG # 05-08-1661 Rev E)

<!-- image -->

1. DIMENSIONS IN MILLIMETER/(INCH)
2. DRAWING NOT TO SCALE
3. DIMENSION DOES NOT INCLUDE MOLD FLASH, PROTRUSIONS OR GATE BURRS.

MOLD FLASH, PROTRUSIONS OR GATE BURRS SHALL NOT EXCEED 0.152mm (.006") PER SIDE

4. DIMENSION DOES NOT INCLUDE INTERLEAD FLASH OR PROTRUSIONS. INTERLEAD FLASH OR PROTRUSIONS SHALL NOT EXCEED 0.152mm (.006") PER SIDE
5. LEAD COPLANARITY (BOTTOM OF LEADS AFTER FORMING) SHALL BE 0.102mm (.004") MAX

## REVISION HISTORY

| REV   | DATE   | DESCRIPTION                                                                  | PAGE NUMBER   |
|-------|--------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| E     | 07/24  | Added AEC-Q100 Statement in Features section Updated Order Information table | 1 2           |
| F     | 05/25  | Updated Features Added Electrostatic Discharge Ratings                       | 1 3           |

## TYPICAL APPLICATION

<!-- image -->

## RELATED PARTS

| PART NUMBER        | DESCRIPTION                                                                                              | COMMENTS                                                                                         |
|--------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| LT1766             | 60V, 1.2A (I OUT ), 200kHz, High Efficiency Step-Down DC/DC Converter                                    | V IN : 5.5V to 60V, V OUT(MIN) = 1.2V, I Q = 2.5mA, I SD = 25µA, TSSOP16/TSSOP16E Packages       |
| LT1933             | 500mA (I OUT ), 500kHz, Step-Down Switching Regulator in SOT-23                                          | V IN : 3.6V to 36V, V OUT(MIN) = 1.2V, I Q = 1.6mA, I SD < 1µA, ThinSOT™ Package                 |
| LT1936             | 36V, 1.4A (I OUT ), 500kHz, High Efficiency Step-Down DC/DC Converter                                    | V IN : 3.6V to 36V, V OUT(MIN) = 1.2V , I Q = 1.9mA, I SD < 1µA, MS8E Package                    |
| LT1940             | Dual 25V, 1.4A (I OUT ), 1.1MHz, High Efficiency Step-Down DC/DC Converter                               | V IN : 3.6V to 25V, V OUT(MIN) = 1.20V, I Q = 3.8mA, I SD < 30µA, TSSOP16E Package               |
| LT1976/ LT1977     | 60V, 1.2A (I OUT ), 200kHz/500kHz High Efficiency Step-Down DC/DC Converters with Burst Mode ® Operation | V IN : 3.3V to 60V, V OUT(MIN) = 1.20V, I Q = 100µA, I SD < 1µA, TSSOP16E Package                |
| LTC3407/ LTC3407-2 | Dual 600mA/800mA, 1.5MHz/2.25MHz, Synchronous Step-DownDC/DC Converters                                  | V IN : 2.5V to 5.5V, V OUT(MIN) = 0.6V, I Q = 40µA, I SD <1µA, 3mm × 3mm DFN, MS10E Package      |
| LT3434/ LT3435     | 60V, 1.2A (I OUT ), 200kHz/500kHz High Efficiency Step-Down DC/DC Converters with Burst Mode Operation   | V IN : 3.3V to 60V, V OUT(MIN) = 1.20V, I Q = 100µA, I SD < 1µA, TSSOP16E Package                |
| LT3437             | 60V, 400mA (I OUT ), Micropower Step-Down DC/DC Converter with Burst Mode Operation                      | V IN : 3.3V to 60V, V OUT(MIN) = 1.25V, I Q = 100µA, I SD < 1µA, DFN Package                     |
| LT3493             | 36V, 1.4A (I OUT ), 750kHz, High Efficiency Step-Down DC/DC Converter                                    | V IN : 3.6V to 36V, V OUT(MIN) = 0.8V, I Q = 1.9mA, I SD < 1µA, DFN Package                      |
| LT3501             | Dual 25V, 3A (I OUT ), 1.5MHz, High Efficiency Step-Down DC/DC Converter                                 | V IN : 3.3V to 25V, V OUT(MIN) = 0.8V, I Q = 3.7mA, I SD < 10µA, TSSOP20E Package                |
| LT3503             | 20V, 1A (I OUT ), 2.2MHz, High Efficiency Step-Down DC/DC Converter                                      | V IN : 3.6V to 20V, V OUT(MIN) = 0.78V, I Q = 1.9mA, I SD < 1µA, 2mm × 3mm DFN Package           |
| LT3505             | 36V, 1.2A (I OUT ), 3MHz, High Efficiency Step-Down DC/DC Converter                                      | V IN : 3.6V to 36V, V OUT(MIN) = 0.78V, I Q = 2mA, I SD < 2µA, 3mm × 3mm DFN, MS8E Packages      |
| LT3506/ LT3506A    | Dual 25V, 1.6A (I OUT ), 575kHz/1.1MHz, High Efficiency Step- Down DC/DC Converters                      | V IN : 3.6V to 25V, V OUT(MIN) = 0.8V, I Q = 3.8mA, I SD < 30µA, 4mm × 5mm DFN Package           |
| LT3508             | Dual 36V, 1.4A (I OUT ), 2.5MHz, High Efficiency Step-Down DC/ DC Converter                              | V IN : 3.6V to 36V, V OUT(MIN) = 0.8V, I Q = 4.3mA, I SD < 1µA, 4mm × 4mm QFN, TSSOP16E Packages |
| LT3510             | Dual 25V, 2A (I OUT ), 1.5MHz, High Efficiency Step-Down DC/ DC Converter                                | V IN : 3.3V to 25V, V OUT(MIN) = 0.8V, I Q = 3.7mA, I SD < 10µA, TSSOP20E Package                |
| LTC3548            | Dual 400mA + 800mA, 2.25MHz Synchronous Step-Down DC/ DC Converter                                       | V IN : 2.5V to 5.5V, V OUT(MIN) = 0.6V, I Q = 40µA, I SD < 1µA, 3mm × 3mm DFN, MS10E Packages    |

Burst Mode is a registered trademark of Linear Technology Corporation. ThinSOT is a trademark of Linear Technology Corporation.

<!-- image -->

For more information www.analog.com