<!-- lastmod 2025-08-15 -->
<!-- image -->

3V to 65V, 5.5A Synchronous Step-Down Silent Switcher with 9 μ A Quiescent Current

## FEATURES

-  Silent Switcher® Architecture, Ultralow EMI Emissions
-  High Efficiency at High Frequency
-  Up to 94.5% at 400kHz, 24VIN to 5VOUT
-  Up to 93% at 1MHz, 24VIN to 5VOUT
-  Pin Selectable Adjustable, Fixed 3.3V and 5V Output
-  Ultralow Quiescent Current Burst Mode Operation
-  9 μ A IQ Regulating 24VIN to 5VOUT
-  On-the-Fly Mode Change Among Burst, Pulse Skip and Forced Continuous Mode
-  Burst and Pulse Skipping Modes to Enable Enhanced Light-Load Efficiency
-  Built-in Output-Voltage Monitoring and Die Temperature Monitoring with PG/TJ
-  99% Duty-Cycle Operation
-  200kHz to 3MHz Adjustable Switching Frequency with External Clock Synchronization
-  70V Transient-Input Tolerant
-  Internal Compensation
-  Programmable Soft-Start and Tracking
-  Built-in Hiccup Mode Overload Protection
-  Safely Tolerates Inductor Saturation in Overload
-  Small 17-Lead 3mm × 4mm QFN

## APPLICATIONS

-  General Purpose Step-Down
-  Automotive and Industrial Supplies

## SIMPLIFIED APPLICATION DIAGRAM

Figure 1. Typical Application Circuit

<!-- image -->

001

## GENERAL DESCRIPTION

The  LT80605  step-down  regulator  features  the  Silent Switcher® architecture to minimize EMI emissions while delivering  high  efficiency  at  frequencies  up  to  3MHz. Assembled  in  a  3mm  x  4mm  QFN,  the  monolithic construction with integrated power switches and inclusion of all necessary circuitry yields a solution with a  minimal  PCB  footprint.  An  ultralow  9µA  quiescent current  with  the  output  in  full  regulation  enables applications requiring highest efficiency at light loads. The  device  features  a  SYNC/MODE  pin  that  selects among Burst Mode, pulse skipping, or forced continuous mode (FCM), and also allows synchronization  to  an  external  clock.  Soft-start  and tracking functionality are accessed through the TR/SS pin. An accurate enable threshold can be set using the EN/UV pin and a resistor at the RT pin programs switch frequency. In addition, the device features a PG/TJ pin that can be used either to monitor the status of output voltage or die temperature. The die temperature monitor  allows  to  directly  measure  the  silicon  die temperature, enabling a robust, reliable power supply design.

Figure 2. Efficiency vs. Load Current

<!-- image -->

Tel: 781.329.4700

<!-- image -->

ALL  INFORMATION  CONTAINED  HEREIN  IS  PROVIDED  'AS  IS'  WITHOUT  REPRESENTATION  OR  WARRANTY.  NO  RESPONSIBILITY  IS ASSUMED BY ANALOG DEVICES FOR ITS USE, NOR FOR ANY INFRINGEMENTS OF PATENTS OR OTHER RIGHTS OF THIRD PARTIES THAT MAY  RESULT  FROM  ITS  USE.  SPECIFICATIONS  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE.  NO  LICENCE,  EITHER  EXPRESSED  OR IMPLIED, IS GRANTED UNDER ANY ADI PATENT RIGHT, COPYRIGHT, MASK WORK RIGHT, OR ANY OTHER ADI INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHT RELATING TO ANY COMBINATION, MACHINE, OR PROCESS, IN WHICH ADI PRODUCTS OR SERVICES ARE USED. TRADEMARKS AND REGISTERED TRADEMARKS ARE THE PROPERTY OF THEIR RESPECTIVE OWNERS. ALL ANALOG DEVICES PRODUCTS CONTAINED HEREIN ARE SUBJECT TO RELEASE AND AVAILABILITY.