<!-- lastmod 2024-04-12 -->
<!-- image -->

## FEATURES

- n 3V to 100V Input Voltage Range
- n 2A, 150V Internal DMOS Power Switch
- n Low Quiescent Current:
- n 116µA in Sleep Mode
- n 390µA in Active Mode
- n Quasi-Resonant Boundary Mode Operation at Heavy Load
- n Low Ripple Burst Mode ® Operation at Light Load
- n Minimum Load &lt; 0.5% (Typ) of Full Output
- n No Transformer Third Winding or Opto-Isolator Required for Output Voltage Regulation
- n Accurate EN/UVLO Threshold and Hysteresis
- n Internal Compensation and Soft-Start
- n Temperature Compensation for Output Diode
- n Output Short-Circuit Protection
- n Thermally Enhanced 8-Lead SO Package

## APPLICATIONS

- n Isolated Automotive, Industrial, Medical, Telecom Power Supplies
- n Isolated Auxiliary/Housekeeping Power Supplies

## TYPICAL APPLICATION

4V to 80V IN /5V OUT  Isolated Flyback Converter

<!-- image -->

## 100VIN Micropower No-Opto Isolated Flyback Converter with 150V/2A Switch

## DESCRIPTION

The LT ® 8304/LT8304-1 are monolithic micropower isolated flyback converters. By sampling the isolated output voltage directly from the primary-side flyback waveform, the  parts  require  no  third  winding  or  opto-isolator  for regulation. The output voltage is programmed with two external resistors and a third optional temperature compensation resistor. Boundary mode operation provides a small  magnetic  solution  with  excellent  load  regulation.  Low ripple Burst Mode operation maintains high efficiency at light load while minimizing the output voltage ripple. A 2A, 150V DMOS power switch is integrated along with all the high voltage circuitry and control logic into a thermally enhanced 8-lead SO package.

The LT8304/LT8304-1 operate from an input voltage range of 3V to 100V and deliver up to 24W of isolated output power. The high  level  of  integration  and  the  use  of  boundary and low ripple Burst Mode operation result in a simple to use, low component count, and high efficiency application solution for isolated power delivery. The LT8304-1 is specially optimized for high step-up output applications.

All registered trademarks and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

## Efficiency vs Load Current

<!-- image -->

8304 TA01b

Rev. B

## ABSOLUTE MAXIMUM RATINGS

## (Note 1)

| SW (Note 2) ............................................................150V        |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| V IN ..........................................................................100V |
| EN/UVLO....................................................................V IN     |
| R FB ........................................................V IN - 0.5V to V IN    |
| Current Into R FB ....................................................200µA         |
| INTV CC , R REF , TC.........................................................4V     |
| Operating Junction Temperature T J Range (Notes 3, 4)                               |
| LT8304E/LT8304E-1.......................... -40°C to 125°C                          |
| LT8304I/LT8304I-1............................ -40°C to 125°C                        |
| LT8304H/LT8304H-1 .........................-40°C to 150°C                           |
| Storage Temperature Range ..................-65°C to 150°C                          |
| Lead Temperature (Soldering, 10 sec)...................300°C                        |

## PIN CONFIGURATION

<!-- image -->

## ORDER INFORMATION https://www.analog.com/en/products/lt8304.

| LEAD FREE FINISH   | TAPE AND REEL      |   PART MARKING* | PACKAGE DESCRIPTION   | TEMPERATURE RANGE   |
|--------------------|--------------------|-----------------|-----------------------|---------------------|
| LT8304ES8E#PBF     | LT8304ES8E#TRPBF   |            8304 | 8-Lead Plastic SO     | -40°C to 125°C      |
| LT8304IS8E#PBF     | LT8304IS8E#TRPBF   |            8304 | 8-Lead Plastic SO     | -40°C to 125°C      |
| LT8304HS8E#PBF     | LT8304HS8E#TRPBF   |            8304 | 8-Lead Plastic SO     | -40°C to 150°C      |
| LT8304ES8E-1#PBF   | LT8304ES8E-1#TRPBF |           83041 | 8-Lead Plastic SO     | -40°C to 125°C      |
| LT8304IS8E-1#PBF   | LT8304IS8E-1#TRPBF |           83041 | 8-Lead Plastic SO     | -40°C to 125°C      |
| LT8304HS8E-1#PBF   | LT8304HS8E-1#TRPBF |           83041 | 8-Lead Plastic SO     | -40°C to 150°C      |

Consult LTC Marketing for parts specified with wider operating temperature ranges. *The temperature grade is identified by a label on the shipping container

For more information on lead free part marking, go to: www.adi.com/leadfree/

For more information on tape and reel specifications, go to: www.adi.com/tapeandreel/. Some packages are available in 500 unit reels through designated sales channels with #TRMPBF suffix.

## ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS

The

l

denotes the specifications which apply over the full operating temperature range, otherwise specifications are at T A  = 25°C. V IN  = 24V, V EN/UVLO  = V IN , C INTVCC  = 1µF to GND, unless otherwise noted.

| SYMBOL    | PARAMETER                                | CONDITIONS                                                                        |    | MIN           | TYP            | MAX         | UNIT        |
|-----------|------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----|---------------|----------------|-------------|-------------|
| V IN      | V IN Voltage Range                       |                                                                                   | l  | 3             |                | 100         | V           |
| I Q       | V IN Quiescent Current                   | V EN/UVLO = 0.2V V EN/UVLO = 1.1V Sleep Mode (Switch Off) Active Mode (Switch On) |    |               | 1.8 63 116 390 | 3           | µA µA µA µA |
|           | EN/UVLO Shutdown Threshold               | For Lowest Off I Q                                                                | l  | 0.2           | 0.5            |             | V           |
|           | EN/UVLO Enable Threshold                 | Falling                                                                           | l  | 1.178         | 1.214          | 1.250       | V           |
|           | EN/UVLO Enable Hysteresis                |                                                                                   |    |               | 14             |             | mV          |
| I HYS     | EN/UVLO Hysteresis Current               | V EN/UVLO = 0.2V V EN/UVLO = 1.1V V EN/UVLO = 1.3V                                |    | -0.1 2.3 -0.1 | 0 2.5 0        | 0.1 2.7 0.1 | µA µA µA    |
| V INTVCC  | INTV CC Regulation Voltage               | I INTVCC = 0mA to 10mA                                                            |    | 2.8           | 3              | 3.1         | V           |
| I INTVCC  | INTV CC Current Limit                    | V INTVCC = 2.8V                                                                   |    |               | 16             |             | mA          |
|           | INTV CC UVLO Threshold                   | Falling                                                                           |    | 2.38          | 2.47           | 2.56        | V           |
|           | INTV CC UVLO Hysteresis                  |                                                                                   |    |               | 105            |             | mV          |
|           | (R FB - V IN ) Voltage                   | I RFB = 75µA to 125µA                                                             |    | -60           |                | 60          | mV          |
|           | R REF Regulation Voltage                 |                                                                                   | l  | 0.98          | 1.00           | 1.02        | V           |
|           | R REF Regulation Voltage Line Regulation | 3V ≤ V IN ≤ 100V                                                                  |    |               | 0.02           | 0.1         | %           |
| V TC      | TC Pin Voltage                           |                                                                                   |    |               | 1.00           |             | V           |
| I TC      | TC Pin Current                           | V TC = 1.2V (LT8304) V TC = 1.2V (LT8304-1) V TC = 0.8V                           |    | 12 7          | 15 10 -200     | 18 13       | µA µA µA    |
| f MAX     | Maximum Switching Frequency              |                                                                                   | l  | 315           | 350            | 385         | kHz         |
| f MIN     | Minimum Switching Frequency              |                                                                                   |    | 8             | 11             | 14          | kHz         |
| t ON(MIN) | Minimum Switch-On Time                   | (LT8304) (LT8304-1)                                                               |    |               | 160 950        |             | ns ns       |
| I SW(MAX) | Maximum Switch Current Limit             |                                                                                   |    | 2.0           | 2.4            | 2.8         | A           |
| I SW(MIN) | Minimum Switch Current Limit             |                                                                                   |    | 0.43          | 0.48           | 0.53        | A           |
| R DS(ON)  | Switch On-Resistance                     | I SW = 0.8A                                                                       |    |               | 0.5            |             | Ω           |
| I LKG     | Switch Leakage Current                   | V SW = 150V                                                                       |    |               | 0.1            | 0.5         | µA          |
| t SS      | Soft-Start Timer                         |                                                                                   |    |               | 11             |             | ms          |

Note 1: Stresses beyond those listed under Absolute Maximum Ratings may cause permanent damage to the device. Exposure to any Absolute Maximum Rating condition for extended periods may affect device reliability and lifetime.

Note 2: The SW pin is rated to 150V for transients. Depending on the leakage inductance voltage spike, operating waveforms of the SW pin should be derated to keep the flyback voltage spike below 150V as shown in Figure 5.

Note 3: The LT8304E/LT8304E-1 are guaranteed to meet performance specifications from 0°C to 125°C junction temperature. Specifications over the -40°C to 125°C operating junction temperature range are assured by design, characterization and correlation with statistical process controls.

The LT8304I/LT8304I-1 are guaranteed over the full -40°C to 125°C operating junction temperature range. LT8304H/LT304H-1 are guaranteed over the full -40°C to 150°C operating junction temperature range. High junction temperatures degrade operating lifetimes. Operating lifetime is derated at junction temperature greater than 125°C.

Note 4: The LT8304/LT8304-1 includes overtemperature protection that is intended to protect the device during momentary overload conditions. Junction temperature will exceed 150°C when overtemperature protection is active. Continuous operation above the specified maximum operating junction temperature may impair device reliability.

Rev. B

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS T A  = 25°C, unless otherwise noted.

## Output Load and Line Regulation

<!-- image -->

8304 G01

Boundary Mode Waveforms

VIN  Shutdown Current IN

<!-- image -->

T

J

<!-- image -->

## Output Temperature Variation

Discontinuous Mode Waveforms

<!-- image -->

VIN  Quiescent Current, Sleep Mode Slep Mode

<!-- image -->

T

J

T

J

<!-- image -->

Switching Frequency vs Load Current

<!-- image -->

8304 G03

Burst Mode Operation Waveforms

VIN  Quiescent Current, Active Mode Active Mode

<!-- image -->

T

J

T

J

<!-- image -->

Q

T

T

J

J

8304 G07

Q

T

J

8304 G08

Q

T

J

8304 G09

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS T A  = 25°C, unless otherwise noted.

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

R

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

8304 G11

<!-- image -->

R

8304 G14

<!-- image -->

8304 G17

<!-- image -->

(

R

F

B

<!-- image -->

R

F

B

R

F

B

<!-- image -->

8304 G18

R

F

B

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS T A  = 25°C, unless otherwise noted.

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

8304 G23

<!-- image -->

Maximum Switching Frequency

<!-- image -->

## PIN FUNCTIONS

EN/UVLO  (Pin  1): Enable/Undervoltage  Lockout.  The EN/UVLO pin is used to enable the LT8304. Pull the pin below 0.2V to shut down the LT8304. This pin has an accurate 1.214V threshold and can be used to program a V IN undervoltage lockout (UVLO) threshold using a resistor divider from V IN  to ground. A 2.5µA current hysteresis allows the programming of V IN  UVLO hysteresis. If neither function is used, tie this pin directly to V IN .

INTV CC  (Pin 2): Internal 3V Linear Regulator Output. The INTV CC  pin is supplied from V IN  and powers the internal control  circuitry  and  gate  driver.  Do  not  overdrive  the INTV CC   pin  with  any  external  supply,  such  as  a  third  winding supply. Locally bypass this pin to ground with a minimum 1µF ceramic capacitor.

VIN  (Pin 3): Input Supply. The V IN  pin supplies current to the internal circuitry and serves as a reference voltage for the feedback circuitry connected to the R FB  pin. Locally bypass this pin to ground with a capacitor.

GND (Pin 4, Exposed Pad Pin 9): Ground. The exposed pad provides both electrical contact to ground and good thermal contact to the printed circuit board. Solder the exposed pad directly to the ground plane.

SW (Pin 5): Drain of the Internal DMOS Power Switch. Minimize trace area at this pin to reduce EMI and voltage spikes.

RFB   (Pin  6): Input  Pin  for  External  Feedback  Resistor. Connect a resistor from this pin  to  the  transformer  primary SW pin. The ratio of the R FB  resistor to the R REF  resistor, times the  internal  voltage  reference,  determines  the  output voltage (plus the effect of any non-unity transformer turns ratio). Minimize trace area at this pin.

RREF  (Pin 7): Input Pin for External Ground Referred Reference Resistor. The resistor at this pin should be in the range of 10k, but for convenience in selecting a resistor divider ratio, the value may range from 9.09k to 11.0k.

TC (Pin  8): Output  Voltage  Temperature  Compensation.  The voltage at this pin is proportional to absolute temperature (PTAT) with temperature coefficient equal to 3.35mV/°C, i.e., equal to 1V at room temperature 25°C. The TC pin voltage can be used to estimate the LT8304 junction temperature. Connect a resistor from this pin to the R REF  pin to compensate the output diode temperature coefficient.

## BLOCK DIAGRAM

<!-- image -->

## OPERATION

The  LT8304  is  a  current  mode  switching  regulator  IC designed specially for the isolated flyback topology. The key problem in isolated topologies is how to communicate the  output  voltage  information  from  the  isolated  secondary side of the transformer to the primary side for regulation. Historically, opto-isolators or extra transformer windings communicate this information across the isolation boundary. Opto-isolator circuits waste output power, and the extra components increase the cost and physical size of the power supply. Opto-isolators can also cause system issues due to  limited  dynamic  response,  nonlinearity,  unitto-unit  variation  and  aging  over  lifetime.  Circuits  employing extra transformer windings also exhibit deficiencies, as using an extra winding adds to the transformer's physical size and cost, and dynamic response is often mediocre.

The LT8304 samples the isolated output voltage through the primary-side flyback pulse waveform. In this manner, neither opto-isolator nor extra transformer winding is required for regulation. Since the LT8304 operates in either boundary conduction mode or discontinuous conduction mode, the output voltage is always sampled on the SW pin when the secondary current is zero. This method improves load regulation without the need of external load compensation components.

## OPERATION

The LT8304 is a simple to use micropower isolated flyback converter housed in a thermally enhanced 8-lead SO package. The output voltage is programmed with two external resistors. An optional TC resistor provides easy output diode temperature compensation. By integrating the  loop  compensation  and  soft-start  inside,  the  part reduces the number of external components. As shown in the Block Diagram, many of the blocks are similar to those found in traditional switching regulators including reference, regulators, oscillator, logic, current amplifier, current comparator, driver, and power switch. The novel sections include a flyback pulse sense circuit, a sampleand-hold error amplifier, and a boundary mode detector, as well as the additional logic for boundary conduction mode, discontinuous conduction mode, and low ripple Burst Mode operation.

## Quasi-Resonant Boundary Mode Operation

The LT8304 features quasi-resonant boundary conduction mode operation at heavy load, where the chip turns on the primary power switch when the secondary current is zero and the SW rings to its valley. Boundary conduction mode is a variable frequency, variable peak-current switching scheme. The power switch turns on and the transformer primary current  increases  until  an  internally  controlled  peak current limit. After the power switch turns off, the voltage on the SW pin rises to the output voltage multiplied by the primary-to-secondary transformer turns ratio plus the input voltage. When the secondary current through the output diode falls to zero, the SW pin voltage collapses and rings around V IN . A boundary mode detector senses this event and turns the power switch back on at its valley.

Boundary conduction mode returns the secondary current to zero every cycle, so parasitic resistive voltage drops do not cause load regulation errors. Boundary conduction mode also allows the use of smaller transformers compared to continuous conduction mode and does not exhibit subharmonic oscillation.

## Discontinuous Conduction Mode Operation

As the load gets lighter, boundary conduction mode increases the switching frequency and decreases the switch peak  current  at  the  same  ratio.  Running  at  a  higher  switching frequency up to several MHz increases switching and gate charge losses. To avoid this scenario, the LT8304 has an additional internal oscillator, which clamps the maximum switching frequency to be less than 350kHz (TYP). Once the switching frequency hits the internal frequency clamp, the part starts to delay the switch turn-on and operates in discontinuous conduction mode.

## Low Ripple Burst Mode Operation

Unlike traditional flyback converters, the LT8304 has to turn on and off at least for a minimum amount of time and with a minimum frequency to allow accurate sampling of the output voltage. The inherent minimum switch current limit and minimum switch-off time are necessary to guarantee the correct operation of specific applications.

As the load gets very light, the LT8304 starts to fold back the  switching  frequency  while  keeping  the  minimum  switch current limit. So the load current is able to decrease while still  allowing  minimum  switch-off  time  for  the  sample-andhold error  amplifier.  Meanwhile,  the  part  switches  between sleep mode and active mode, thereby reducing the effective quiescent current to improve light load efficiency. In this condition, the LT8304 runs in low ripple Burst Mode operation.  The  typical  11kHz  minimum  switching  frequency determines how often the output voltage is sampled and also the minimum load requirement.

## High Step-Up V OUT  Applications

Typically, high step-up output applications have excessive primary inductor current ringing during primary switch turn-on due to the huge reflected capacitance on SW node. Such current ringing can falsely trigger LT8304 current comparator after 160ns typical blanking time and create large signal oscillation, especially at high V IN  and light load  condition.  The  LT8304-1,  specially  optimized  for high step-up output applications, is more immune to the current ringing without requiring longer blanking time. For any 1:N step-up transformer turns ratio larger than or equal to 5, the LT8304-1 is recommended.

Rev. B

<!-- image -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## Output Voltage

The R FB and  R REF   resistors  as  depicted  in  the  Block  Diagram are external resistors used to program the output voltage. The LT8304 operates similar to traditional current mode switchers,  except  in  the  use  of  a  unique  flyback  pulse sense circuit  and  a  sample-and-hold  error  amplifier,  which sample and therefore regulate the isolated output voltage from the flyback pulse.

Operation is as follows: when the power switch M1 turns off, the SW pin voltage rises above the V IN  supply. The amplitude of the flyback pulse, i.e., the difference between the SW pin voltage and V IN  supply, is given as:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

VF  = Output diode forward voltage

I SEC  = T ransformer secondary current

ESR = Total impedance of secondary circuit

NPS   =  T ransformer  effective  primary-to-secondary turns ratio

The flyback voltage is then converted to a current, I RFB , by the R FB  resistor and the flyback pulse sense circuit (M2 and M3). This current, I RFB , also flows through the RREF  resistor to generate a ground-referred voltage. The resulting  voltage  feeds  to  the  inverting  input  of  the  sampleand-hold error amplifier. Since the sample-and-hold error amplifier samples the voltage when the secondary current is zero, the (I SEC  · ESR) term in the V FLBK  equation can be assumed to be zero.

The internal reference voltage, V REF , 1.00V, feeds to the noninverting input of the sample-and-hold error amplifier. The relatively high gain in the overall loop causes the voltage at the R REF  pin to be nearly equal to the internal reference voltage V REF .  The  resulting  relationship  between VFLBK  and V REF  can be expressed as:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

VREF  = Internal reference voltage 1.00V

Combination with the previous V FLBK  equation yields an equation for V OUT , in terms of the R FB  and R REF  resistors, transformer turns ratio, and diode forward voltage:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

## Output Temperature Compensation

The first term in the V OUT  equation does not have temperature  dependence, but the output diode forward voltage, V F , has  a  significant  negative  temperature  coefficient  (-1mV/°C to -2mV/°C). Such a negative temperature coefficient produces approximately 200mV to 300mV voltage variation on the output voltage across temperature.

For  higher  voltage  outputs,  such  as  12V  and  24V,  the output diode temperature coefficient has a negligible effect on the output voltage regulation. For lower voltage outputs, such as 3.3V and 5V, however, the output diode temperature coefficient does count for an extra 2% to 5% output voltage regulation.

The LT8304 junction temperature usually tracks the output diode  junction  temperature  to  the  first  order.  To  compensate the negative temperature coefficient of the output diode, a resistor, R TC , connected between the TC and R REF  pins generates a proportional-to-absolute-temperature (PTAT) current. The PTAT current is zero at 25°C, flows into the RREF  pin at hot temperature, and flows out of the R REF  pin at cold temperature. With the R TC  resistor in place, the output voltage equation is revised as follows:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

R TC N PS TO = Room temperature 25° ° C V F / T ( ) = Output diode forward voltage temperature coefficient V TC / T ( ) = 3.35mV/ C

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

To cancel the output diode temperature coefficient, the following two equations should be satisfied:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

## Selecting Actual R REF , R FB , R TC  Resistor Values

The LT8304 uses a unique sampling scheme to regulate the isolated output voltage. Due to the sampling nature, the scheme contains repeatable delays and error sources, which will  affect  the  output  voltage  and  force  a  re-evaluation of the R FB  and R TC  resistor values. Therefore, a simple 2-step sequential process is recommended for selecting resistor values.

Rearrangement of the expression for V OUT  in the previous sections yields the starting value for R FB :

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

VOUT  = Output voltage

VF  (TO) = Output diode forward voltage at 25°C = ~0.3V

NPS   =  T ransformer  effective  primary-to-secondary turns ratio

The equation shows that the R FB  resistor value is independent of the R TC resistor value. Any R TC  resistor connected between the TC and R REF  pins has no effect on the output voltage setting at 25°C because the TC pin voltage is equal to the R REF  regulation voltage at 25°C.

The  R REF   resistor  value  should  be  approximately  10k because the LT8304 is trimmed and specified using this value. If the R REF  resistor value varies considerably from 10k, additional errors will result. However, a variation in RREF  up to 10% is acceptable. This yields a bit of freedom in selecting standard 1% resistor values to yield nominal RFB /R REF ratios.

First, build and power up the application with the starting RREF , R FB  values (no R TC  resistor yet) and other components connected, and measure the regulated output voltage, V OUT(MEAS) . The new R FB  value can be adjusted to:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Second, with a new R FB  resistor value selected, the output diode temperature coefficient in the application can be tested to determine the R TC  value. Still without the R TC resistor, the V OUT  should be measured over temperature at a desired target output load. It is very important for this  evaluation  that  uniform  temperature  be  applied  to both the output diode and the LT8304. If freeze spray or a heat gun is used, there can be a significant mismatch in temperature between the two devices that causes significant error. Attempting to extrapolate the data from a diode data sheet is another option if there is no method to apply uniform heating or cooling such as an oven. With at least two data points spreading across the operating temperature range, the output diode temperature coefficient can be determined by:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Using the measured output diode temperature coefficient, an  exact  R TC   value  can  be  selected  with  the  following equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Once the R REF ,  R FB ,  and  R TC   values  are  selected,  the  regulation accuracy from board to board for a given application will be very consistent, typically under ±5% when including device variation of all the components in the system (assuming resistor tolerances and transformer windings matching within  ±1%).  However,  if  the  transformer  or the output diode is changed, or the layout is dramatically altered, there may be some change in V OUT .

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## Output Power

A flyback  converter  has  a  complicated  relationship  between the input and output currents compared to a buck or a boost converter.  A  boost  converter  has  a  relatively  constant maximum input current regardless of input voltage and a buck converter has a relatively constant maximum output current  regardless  of  input  voltage.  This  is  due  to  the continuous non-switching behavior of the two currents. A flyback converter has both discontinuous input and output currents which make it similar  to  a  nonisolated  buck-boost converter. The duty cycle will affect the input and output currents, making it hard to predict output power. In addition, the winding ratio can be changed to multiply the output current at the expense of a higher switch voltage.

The graphs in Figures 1 to 4 show the typical maximum output power possible for the output voltages 3.3V, 5V,

Figure 1. Output Power for 3.3V Output

<!-- image -->

Figure 2. Output Power for 5V Output

<!-- image -->

12V, and 24V. The maximum output power curve is the calculated output power if the switch voltage is 110V during the switch-off time. 40V of margin is left for leakage inductance voltage spike. To achieve this power level at a given input, a winding ratio value must be calculated to stress the switch to 110V, resulting in some odd ratio values.  The  curves  below  the  maximum  output  power curve are examples of common winding ratio values and the amount of output power at given input voltages.

One design example would be a 5V output converter with a minimum input voltage of 36V and a maximum input voltage of 75V. A six-to-one winding ratio fits this design example perfectly and outputs equal to 19.0W at 75V but lowers to 14.4W at 36V.

Figure 3. Output Power for 12V Output

<!-- image -->

Figure 4. Output Power for 24V Output

<!-- image -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

The equations below calculate output power:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

I SW(MAX)  = Maximum switch current limit = 2A (MIN)

## Primary Inductance Requirement

The LT8304 obtains output voltage information from the reflected output voltage on the SW pin. The conduction of secondary current reflects the output voltage on the primary SW pin.  The  sample-and-hold  error  amplifier  needs a  minimum 350ns to settle and sample the reflected  output voltage. In order to ensure proper sampling, the secondary winding needs to conduct current for a minimum of 350ns. The following equation gives the minimum value for primary-side magnetizing inductance:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

t OFF(MIN)  = Minimum switch-off time = 350ns (TYP)

I SW(MIN)  = Minimum switch current limit = 0.48A (TYP)

In  addition  to  the  primary  inductance  requirement  for the minimum switch-off time, the LT8304 has minimum switch-on time that prevents the chip from turning on

Table 1. Predesigned T ransformers -Typical Specifications

| TRANSFORMER PART NUMBER   | DIMENSION (W × L × H) (mm)   | L PRI (μH) TYP   | L LKG (μH) TYP (MAX)   | N :N   |                  | TARGET APPLICATION   | TARGET APPLICATION   | TARGET APPLICATION   |
|---------------------------|------------------------------|------------------|------------------------|--------|------------------|----------------------|----------------------|----------------------|
| TRANSFORMER PART NUMBER   | DIMENSION (W × L × H) (mm)   | L PRI (μH) TYP   | L LKG (μH) TYP (MAX)   | P S    | VENDOR           | V IN (V)             | V OUT (V)            | I OUT (A)            |
| 750315125                 | 17.75 × 13.46 × 12.70        | 40               | 1 (2)                  | 6:1    | Wurth Elektronik | 36 - 75              | 5                    | 3                    |
| 750315126                 | 17.75 × 13.46 × 12.70        | 40               | 0.5 (1)                | 2:1    | Wurth Elektronik | 36 - 75              | 12                   | 1.2                  |
| 750315835                 | 17.75 × 13.46 × 12.70        | 40               | 1 (2)                  | 8:1    | Wurth Elektronik | 36 - 75              | 3.3                  | 4.2                  |
| 750315836                 | 17.75 × 13.46 × 12.70        | 40               | 0.45 (0.9)             | 1:1    | Wurth Elektronik | 36 - 75              | 24                   | 0.6                  |
| 750315837                 | 17.75 × 13.46 × 12.70        | 40               | 0.5 (1)                | 1:2    | Wurth Elektronik | 36 - 75              | 48                   | 0.3                  |
| 750315839                 | 17.75 × 13.46 × 12.71        | 40               | 0.25 (0.5)             | 1:10   | Wurth Elektronik | 4 - 36               | 200                  | 0.012                |
| 13324-T083                | 18.0 × 13.5 × 12.5           | 40               | (2)                    | 8:1    | Sumida           | 36 - 75              | 3.3                  | 4.2                  |
| 13324-T084                | 18.0 × 13.5 × 12.5           | 40               | (1.2)                  | 1:1    | Sumida           | 36 - 75              | 24                   | 0.6                  |
| 13324-T085                | 18.0 × 13.5 × 12.5           | 40               | (1.2)                  | 1:2    | Sumida           | 36 - 75              | 48                   | 0.3                  |
| 13324-T086                | 18.0 × 13.5 × 12.6           | 40               | (1.2)                  | 1:5    | Sumida           | 4 - 36               | 200                  | 0.012                |
| 13324-T087                | 18.0 × 13.5 × 12.5           | 40               | (1.2)                  | 1:10   | Sumida           | 4 - 18               | 400                  | 0.006                |

Rev. B

the power switch shorter than approximately 160ns. This minimum switch-on time is mainly for leading-edge blanking the initial switch turn-on current spike. If the inductor current exceeds the desired current limit during that time, oscillation may occur at the output as the current control loop will  lose  its  ability  to  regulate.  Therefore,  the  following equation relating to maximum input voltage must also be followed  in  selecting  primary-side  magnetizing  inductance:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

t ON(MIN)  = Minimum switch-on time = 160ns (TYP)

In general, choose a transformer with its primary magnetizing inductance about 40% to 60% larger than the minimum values  calculated  above.  A  transformer  with much larger inductance will have a bigger physical size and may cause instability at light load.

## Selecting a T ransformer

Transformer specification and design is perhaps the most critical  part  of  successfully  applying  the  LT8304.  In  addition to the usual list of guidelines dealing with high frequency isolated power supply transformer design, the following information should be carefully considered.

Linear Technology has worked with several leading magnetic component manufacturers to produce pre-designed flyback  transformers  for  use  with  the  LT8304.  Table  1 shows the details of these transformers.

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## Turns Ratio

Note that when choosing an R FB /R REF  resistor ratio to set output voltage, the user has relative freedom in selecting a transformer turns ratio to suit a given application. In contrast, the use of simple ratios of small integers, e.g., 3:1, 2:1, 1:1, etc., provides more freedom in settling total turns and mutual inductance.

Typically, choose the transformer turns ratio to maximize available  output  power.  For  low  output  voltages  (3.3V or 5V), a N:1 turns ratio can be used with multiple primary windings relative to the secondary to maximize the transformer's current gain (and output power). However, remember that the SW pin sees a voltage that is equal to  the  maximum  input  supply  voltage  plus  the  output voltage multiplied by the turns ratio. In addition, leakage inductance will cause a voltage spike (V LEAKAGE ) on top of this reflected voltage. This total quantity needs to remain below the 150V absolute maximum rating of the SW pin to prevent breakdown of the internal power switch. Together these conditions place an upper limit on the turns ratio, N PS , for a given application. Choose a turns ratio low enough to ensure

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

For larger  N:1  step-down  turns  ratio,  choose  a  transformer with a larger physical size to deliver additional current. In addition, choose a large enough inductance value to ensure that the switch-off time is long enough to accurately sample the output voltage. Always choose the LT8304 for N:1 step-down transformer turns ratio.

For lower output power levels or higher output voltage, choose a 1:1 or 1:N step-up transformer for the absolute smallest transformer size. A 1:N step-up transformer will minimize the magnetizing inductance and size, but  will  also limit  the  available  output  power.  A  higher  1:N  step-up  turns ratio makes it possible to have very high output voltages without exceeding the breakdown voltage of the internal power switch. For any 1:N step-up transformer turns ratio larger than or equal to 5, the LT8304-1 is recommended.

The turns ratio is an important element in the isolated feedback scheme, and directly affects the output voltage accuracy. Make sure the transformer manufacturer specifies turns ratio accuracy within ±1%.

## Saturation Current

The current in  the  transformer  windings  should  not  exceed its  rated  saturation  current.  Energy  injected  once  the  core  is saturated will not be transferred to the secondary and will instead be dissipated in the core. When designing custom transformers to be used with the LT8304, the saturation current  should  always  be  specified  by  the  transformer manufacturers.

## Winding Resistance

Resistance in either the primary or secondary windings will reduce overall power efficiency. Good output voltage regulation will be maintained independent of winding resistance due to the boundary/discontinuous conduction mode operation of the LT8304.

## Leakage Inductance and Snubbers

Transformer leakage inductance on either the primary or secondary causes a voltage spike to appear on the primary after the power switch turns off. This spike is increasingly prominent at higher load currents where more stored energy must be dissipated. It is very important to minimize transformer leakage inductance.

When designing an application,  adequate  margin  should  be kept for the worst-case leakage voltage spikes even under overload conditions. In most cases shown in Figure 5, the reflected output voltage on the primary plus V IN  should be kept below 110V. This leaves at least 40V margin for the leakage spike across line and load conditions. A larger voltage margin will be required for poorly wound transformers or for excessive leakage inductance.

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

Figure 5. Maximum Voltages for SW Pin Flyback Waveform

<!-- image -->

In addition to the voltage spikes, the leakage inductance also causes the SW pin ringing for a while after the power switch turns off. To prevent the voltage ringing falsely trigger boundary mode detector, the LT8304 internally blanks the  boundary  mode  detector  for  approximately  250ns. Any remaining voltage ringing after 250ns may turn the power switch back on again before the secondary current falls to zero. In this case, the LT8304 enters continuous conduction mode. So the leakage inductance spike ringing should be limited to less than 250ns.

To  clamp  and  damp  the  leakage  voltage  spikes,  a (RC + DZ) snubber circuit in Figure 6 is recommended. The RC (resistor-capacitor) snubber quickly damps the voltage spike ringing and provides great load regulation and EMI performance. And the DZ (diode-Zener) ensures well defined and consistent clamping voltage to protect SW pin from exceeding its 150V absolute maximum rating.

Figure 6. (RC + DZ) Snubber Circuit

<!-- image -->

The recommended approach for designing an RC snubber is to measure the period of the ringing on the SW pin when the power switch turns off without the snubber and then add capacitance until the period of the ringing is 1.5 to 2 times longer. The change in period determines the value of the parasitic capacitance, from which the parasitic inductance can be also determined from the initial period. Once the value of the SW node capacitance and inductance is known, a series resistor can be added to the snubber capacitance to dissipate power and critically damp the ringing. The equation for deriving the optimal series resistance using the observed periods ( t PERIOD  and t PERIOD(SNUBBED) ) and snubber capacitance  (C SNUBBER )  is:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Note  that  energy  absorbed  by  the  RC  snubber  will  be converted to heat and will not be delivered to the load. In high voltage or high current applications, the snubber needs to be sized for thermal dissipation. A 220pF capacitor in series with a 100Ω resistor is a good starting point.

For the DZ snubber, proper care should be taken when choosing both the diode and the Zener diode. Schottky diodes are typically the best choice, but some PN diodes can be used if they turn on fast enough to limit the leakage inductance spike. Choose a diode that has a reversevoltage rating higher than the maximum SW pin voltage. The Zener diode breakdown voltage should be chosen to balance power loss and switch voltage protection.  The  best compromise is to choose the largest voltage breakdown with 5V margin. Use the following equation to make the proper choice:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

For an application with a maximum input voltage of 80V, choose a 62V Zener diode, the V ZENER(MAX)  of which is around 65V. The power loss in the DZ snubber determines the power rating of the Zener diode. A 1.5W Zener diode is typically recommended.

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## Undervoltage Lockout (UVLO)

A resistive divider from V IN  to the EN/UVLO pin implements undervoltage lockout (UVLO). The EN/UVLO enable falling threshold is set at 1.214V with 14mV hysteresis. In addition, the EN/UVLO pin sinks 2.5µA when the voltage on the pin is below 1.214V. This current provides user programmable hysteresis based on the value of R1. The programmable UVLO thresholds are:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Figure 7 shows the implementation of external shutdown control while still using the UVLO function. The NMOS grounds the EN/UVLO pin when turned on, and puts the LT8304 in shutdown with quiescent current less than 3µA.

Figure 7. Undervoltage Lockout (UVLO)

<!-- image -->

## Minimum Load Requirement

The  LT8304  samples  the  isolated  output  voltage  from the  primary-side  flyback  pulse  waveform.  The  flyback pulse occurs once the primary switch turns off and the secondary winding conducts current. In order to sample the output voltage, the LT8304 has to turn on and off for a minimum amount of time and with a minimum frequency. The LT8304 delivers a minimum amount of energy even during light  load  conditions  to  ensure  accurate  output  voltage information. The minimum energy delivery creates a minimum load requirement, which can be approximately estimated as:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

L PRI  = T ransformer primary inductance

I SW(MIN)   =  Minimum switch current limit = 0.53A (MAX)

f MIN  = Minimum switching frequency = 14kHz (MAX)

The  LT8304  typically  needs  less  than  0.5%  of  its  full output  power  as  minimum  load.  Alternatively,  a  Zener diode with its breakdown of 10% higher than the output voltage can serve as a minimum load if pre-loading is not acceptable. For a 5V output, use a 5.6V Zener with cathode connected to the output. The LT8304-1 requires slightly higher minimum load, typically 2% of full load.

## Output Short Protection

When the output  is  heavily  overloaded  or  shorted  to  ground, the reflected SW pin waveform rings longer than the internal blanking time. After the 350ns minimum switch-off time, the excessive ringing falsely triggers the boundary mode detector and turns the power switch back on again before  the  secondary  current  falls  to  zero.  Under  this condition, the LT8304 runs into continuous conduction mode at 350kHz (TYP) maximum switching frequency. If the sampled R REF  voltage is still less than 0.6V after 11ms (typ)  soft-start timer, the LT8304 initiates a new soft-start cycle. If the sampled R REF voltage is larger than 0.6V after 11ms, the switch current may run away and exceed the 2.4A maximum current limit. Once the switch current hits 3.6A over current limit, the LT8304 also initiates a new soft-start cycle. Under either condition, the new soft-start cycle  throttles  back  both  the  switch  current  limit  and  switch frequency. The output short-circuit  protection  prevents  the switch current from running away and limits the average output diode current.

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## Design Example

Use the following design example as a guide to designing applications for the LT8304. The design example involves designing a 5V output with a 2.8A load current and an input range from 36V to 75V.

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

## Step 1: Select the transformer turns ratio.

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

VLEAKAGE  = Margin for transformer leakage spike = 40V VF  = Output diode forward voltage = ~0.3V

Example:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The choice of  transformer  turns  ratio  is  critical  in  determining  output  current  capability  of  the  converter.  Table  2  shows the switch voltage stress and output current capability at different transformer turns ratio.

Table 2. Switch Voltage Stress and Output Current Capability vs Turns Ratio

| NPS   |   V SW(MAX) at V IN(MAX) (V) |   I OUT(MAX) at V IN(MIN) (A) | DUTY CYCLE (%)   |
|-------|------------------------------|-------------------------------|------------------|
| 4:1   |                         96.2 |                          2.27 | 22 to 37         |
| 5:1   |                        101.5 |                          2.59 | 26 to 42         |
| 6:1   |                        106.8 |                          2.87 | 30 to 47         |

Clearly, only N PS  = 6 can meet the 2.8A output current requirement, so N PS  = 6 is chosen as the turns ratio in this example.

## Step 2: Determine the primary inductance.

Primary inductance for the transformer must be set above a minimum value to satisfy the minimum switch-off and switch-on time requirements:

Example:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Most transformers specify primary inductance with a tolerance of  ±20%.  With  other  component  tolerance  considered, choose a transformer with its primary inductance 40% to 60% larger than the minimum values calculated above. L PRI  = 40µH is then chosen in this example.

The transformer also needs to be rated for the correct saturation current level across line and load conditions. A saturation current rating larger than 2.8A is necessary to work with the LT8304. The 750315125 from Würth is chosen as the flyback transformer.

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## Step 3: Choose the output diode.

Two main criteria for choosing the output diode include forward  current  rating  and  reverse-voltage  rating.  The maximum load requirement is a good first-order guess at the average current requirement for the output diode. Under  output  short-circuit  condition,  the  output  diode needs to conduct much higher current. Therefore, a conservative metric is 60% of the maximum switch current limit multiplied by the turns ratio:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Next calculate reverse voltage requirement using maximum VIN :

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Example:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The PDS835L (8A, 35V diode) from Diodes Inc. is chosen.

## Step 4: Choose the output capacitor.

The output capacitor should be chosen to minimize the output voltage ripple while considering the increase in size and cost of a larger capacitor. Use the following equation to calculate the output capacitance:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Example:

Design for output voltage ripple less than ±1% of V OUT , i.e., 100mV.

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Remember  ceramic  capacitors  lose  capacitance  with applied voltage. The capacitance can drop up to 40% of quoted capacitance at the maximum voltage rating. So three 100µF, 10V rating ceramic capacitors are chosen.

## Step 5: Design snubber circuit.

The snubber circuit protects the power switch from leakage inductance voltage spike. A (RC + DZ) snubber is recommended for this application. A 220pF capacitor in series with a 100Ω resistor is chosen as the RC snubber.

The maximum Zener breakdown voltage is set according to the maximum V IN :

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

A 62V Zener with a maximum of 65V will provide optimal protection and minimize power loss. So a 62V, 1.5W Zener from Central Semiconductor (CMZ5944B) is chosen.

Choose  a  diode  that  is  fast  and  has  sufficient  reverse voltage breakdown:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

A 150V, 1A diode from Diodes Inc. (DFLS1150) is chosen.

## Step 6: Select the R REF  and R FB  resistors.

Use the following equation to calculate the starting values for R REF and R FB :

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Example:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

For 1% standard values, a 316k resistor is chosen.

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## Step 7: Adjust R FB  resistor based on output voltage.

Build and power up the application with application components and measure the regulated output voltage. Adjust RFB  resistor based on the measured output voltage:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Example:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

## Step  8:  Select  R TC   resistor  based  on  output  voltage temperature variation.

Measure output voltage in a controlled temperature environment like an oven to determine the output temperature coefficient. Measure output voltage at a consistent load current and input voltage, across the operating temperature range.

Calculate the temperature coefficient of V F :

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Example:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

## Step 9: Select the EN/UVLO resistors.

Determine the amount of hysteresis required and calculate R1 resistor value:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Example:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Determine the UVLO thresholds and calculate R2 resistor value:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Example:

Set V IN  UVLO rising threshold to 34.5V:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

## Step 10: Ensure minimum load.

The  theoretical  minimum  load  can  be  approximately estimated as:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Remember to check the minimum load requirement in real application. The minimum load occurs at the point where the output voltage begins to climb up as the converter delivers more energy than what is consumed at the output. The real minimum load for this application is about 20mA. In this example, a 249Ω resistor is selected as the minimum load.

## TYPICAL APPLICATIONS

## 18V to 80V IN /3.3V OUT  Isolated Flyback Converter

<!-- image -->

18V to 80V IN /5V OUT  Isolated Flyback Converter

<!-- image -->

EFICIENCY (%)

0

Efficiency vs Load Current

<!-- image -->

8304 TA02b

Efficiency vs Load Current

100

90

80

70

60

50

40

0.6

1.2

1.8

2.4

LOAD CURENT (A)

V IN  = 24V

V IN  = 48V

V IN  = 72V

3.0

3.6

4.2

8304 TA03b

## TYPICAL APPLICATIONS

## 18V to 80V IN /12V OUT  Isolated Flyback Converter

<!-- image -->

18V to 80V IN /24V OUT  Isolated Flyback Converter

<!-- image -->

Efficiency vs Load Current

<!-- image -->

8304 TA04b

Efficiency vs Load Current

<!-- image -->

8304 TA05b

## TYPICAL APPLICATIONS

## 18V to 80V IN /48V OUT  Isolated Flyback Converter

## Efficiency vs Load Current

<!-- image -->

8304 TA06b

## TYPICAL APPLICATIONS

## 4V to 36V IN /200V OUT  Isolated Flyback Converter

Efficiency, V OUT  = 200V

<!-- image -->

EfGLYPH&lt;31&gt;cieny, V

OUT

= 200V

Load Regulation, V OUT  = 200V

<!-- image -->

Load Regulation, V

OUT

= 200V

<!-- image -->

## 4V to 18V IN /400V OUT  Isolated Flyback Converter

Efficiency, V OUT  = 400V

<!-- image -->

OUT

Load Regulation, V OUT  = 400V

<!-- image -->

Load Regulation, V

OUT

= 400V

<!-- image -->

## TYPICAL APPLICATIONS

-4V to -80V IN /12V OUT  Buck-Boost Converter

<!-- image -->

-18V to -80V IN /-12V OUT  Negative Buck Converter

<!-- image -->

Efficiency vs Load Current

<!-- image -->

8304 TA09b

Efficiency vs Load Current

<!-- image -->

## PACKAGE DESCRIPTION

Please refer to www.analog.com/en/products/lt8304.html#packaging for the most recent package drawings.

## 8-Lead Plastic SOIC (Narrow .150 Inch) Exposed Pad

S8E Package (Reference LTC DWG # 05-08-1857 Rev C)

<!-- image -->

## REVISION HISTORY

| REV   | DATE   | DESCRIPTION                                                     | PAGE NUMBER   |
|-------|--------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| A     | 02/17  | Added LT8304-1 and H-Grade options                              | All           |
|       |        | Changed TC Pin Current conditions                               | 3             |
|       |        | Changed TC pin description to °C                                | 7             |
|       |        | Added High Step-Up V OUT Applications section                   | 9             |
|       |        | Updated Predesigned Transformers - Typical Specifications table | 13            |
|       |        | Revised Turns Ratio section                                     | 14            |
|       |        | Added new application circuits and graphs                       | 23, 24        |
| B     | 04/24  | Updated Order Information table                                 | 2             |

## TYPICAL APPLICATION

## 4V to 100V IN /140V OUT  Boost Converter

<!-- image -->

## RELATED PARTS

| PART NUMBER            | DESCRIPTION                                                          | COMMENTS                                                                    |
|------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| LT8300                 | 100V IN Micropower Isolated Flyback Converter with 150V/260mA Switch | Low I Q Monolithic No-Opto Flyback, 5-Lead TSOT-23                          |
| LT8301                 | 42V IN Micropower Isolated Flyback Converter with 65V/1.2A Switch    | Low I Q Monolithic No-Opto Flyback, 5-Lead TSOT-23                          |
| LT8302                 | 42V IN Micropower Isolated Flyback Converter with 65V/3.6A Switch    | Low I Q Monolithic No-Opto Flyback, 8-Lead SO-8E                            |
| LT8303                 | 100V IN Micropower Isolated Flyback Converter with 150V/450mA Switch | Low I Q Monolithic No-Opto Flyback, 5-Lead TSOT-23                          |
| LT8309                 | Secondary-Side Synchronous Rectifier Driver                          | 4.5V ≤ V CC ≤ 40V, Fast Turn-On and Turn-Off, 5-Lead TSOT-23                |
| LT3573/LT3574 LT3575   | 40V Isolated Flyback Converters                                      | Monolithic No-Opto Flybacks with Integrated 1.25A/0.65A/2.5A Switch         |
| LT3511/LT3512          | 100V Isolated Flyback Converters                                     | Monolithic No-Opto Flybacks with Integrated 240mA/420mA Switch, MSOP-16(12) |
| LT3748                 | 100V Isolated Flyback Controller                                     | 5V ≤ V IN ≤ 100V, No-Opto Flyback, MSOP-16(12)                              |
| LT3798                 | Off-Line Isolated No-Opto Flyback Controller with Active PFC         | V IN and V OUT Limited Only by External Components                          |
| LT3757A/LT3759/ LT3758 | 40V/100V Flyback/Boost Controllers                                   | Universal Controllers with Small Package and Powerful Gate Drive            |
| LT3957/LT3958          | 40V/80V Boost/Flyback Converters                                     | Monolithic with Integrated 5A/3.3A Switch                                   |

<!-- image -->

For more information www.analog.com