<!-- lastmod 2025-07-17 -->
<!-- image -->

## FEATURES

- n 3V to 40V Input Voltage Range
- n Ultralow Quiescent Current and Low Ripple Burst Mode ® Operation: I Q  = 6µA
- n 1A, 60V Power Switch
- n Positive or Negative Output Voltage Programming with a Single Feedback Pin
- n Fixed 2MHz Switching Frequency
- n Accurate 1.6V EN/UVLO Pin Threshold
- n Internal Compensation and Soft-Start
- n Low Profile (1mm) ThinSOT™ Package
- n Low Profile (0.75mm) 8-Lead (3mm × 2mm) DFN Package
- n DFN Package is AEC-Q100 Qualified

## APPLICATIONS

- n Industrial and Automotive
- n Telecom
- n Medical Diagnostic Equipment
- n Portable Electronics

## TYPICAL APPLICATION

## 48V Boost Converter

4

.

7

p

F

<!-- image -->

G

N

D

## Low IQ Boost/SEPIC/ Inverting Converter with 1A, 60V Switch

## DESCRIPTION

The LT ® 8330 is a current mode DC/DC converter capable of generating either positive or negative output voltages using a single feedback pin. It can be configured as a boost, SEPIC or inverting converter consuming as low as 6µA of quiescent current. Low ripple Burst Mode operation maintains high efficiency down to very low output currents while keeping the output ripple below 15mV in a typical application. The internally compensated current mode architecture results in stable operation over a wide range of input and output voltages. Integrated soft-start and frequency foldback functions are included to control inductor current during start-up. The LT8330 comes in small  package  options  that,  combined  with  a  high  switching frequency of 2MHz, help maintain a small foot print for an overall efficient, space-saving and cost effective solution.

All registered trademarks and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

## Efficiency and Power Loss

<!-- image -->

8330 TA01b

## ABSOLUTE MAXIMUM RATINGS (Note 1)

SW ............................................................................60V

VIN , EN/UVLO  ............................................................40V

EN/UVLO Pin Above V IN  Pin  ........................................6V

INTV CC  (Note 2) ..........................................................4V

FBX ...........................................................................±4V

Operating Junction Temperature (Note 3)

LT8330E, LT8330I ............................. -40°C to 125°C

LT8330J, LT8330H ............................ -40°C to 150°C

Storage Temperature Range .................. -65°C to 150°C

## PIN CONFIGURATION

<!-- image -->

## ORDER INFORMATION

## Lead Free Finish

| TAPE AND REEL (MINI)   | TAPE AND REEL         | PART MARKING*         | PACKAGE DESCRIPTION            | TEMPERATURE RANGE     |
|------------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|--------------------------------|-----------------------|
| LT8330ES6#TRMPBF       | LT8330ES6#TRPBF       | LTGMQ                 | 6-Lead Plastic TSOT-23         | -40°C to 125°C        |
| LT8330IS6#TRMPBF       | LT8330IS6#TRPBF       | LTGMQ                 | 6-Lead Plastic TSOT-23         | -40°C to 125°C        |
| LT8330JS6#TRMPBF       | LT8330JS6#TRPBF       | LTGMQ                 | 6-Lead Plastic TSOT-23         | -40°C to 150°C        |
| LT8330HS6#TRMPBF       | LT8330HS6#TRPBF       | LTGMQ                 | 6-Lead Plastic TSOT-23         | -40°C to 150°C        |
| LT8330EDDB#TRMPBF      | LT8330EDDB#TRPBF      | LGRC                  | 8-Lead (3mm × 2mm) Plastic DFN | -40°C to 125°C        |
| LT8330IDDB#TRMPBF      | LT8330IDDB#TRPBF      | LGRC                  | 8-Lead (3mm × 2mm) Plastic DFN | -40°C to 125°C        |
| LT8330JDDB#TRMPBF      | LT8330JDDB#TRPBF      | LGRC                  | 8-Lead (3mm × 2mm) Plastic DFN | -40°C to 150°C        |
| LT8330HDDB#TRMPBF      | LT8330HDDB#TRPBF      | LGRC                  | 8-Lead (3mm × 2mm) Plastic DFN | -40°C to 150°C        |
| AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTS**  | AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTS** | AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTS** | AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTS**          | AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTS** |
| LT8330EDDB#WTRMPBF     | LT8330EDDB#WTRPBF     | LGRC                  | 8-Lead (3mm × 2mm) Plastic DFN | -40°C to 125°C        |
| LT8330IDDB#WTRMPBF     | LT8330IDDB#WTRPBF     | LGRC                  | 8-Lead (3mm × 2mm) Plastic DFN | -40°C to 125°C        |
| LT8330JDDB#WTRMPBF     | LT8330JDDB#WTRPBF     | LGRC                  | 8-Lead (3mm × 2mm) Plastic DFN | -40°C to 150°C        |
| LT8330HDDB#WTRMPBF     | LT8330HDDB#WTRPBF     | LGRC                  | 8-Lead (3mm × 2mm) Plastic DFN | -40°C to 150°C        |

Contact the factory for parts specified with wider operating temperature ranges.

Contact the factory for information on lead based finish parts.

Tape and reel specifications. Some packages are available in 500 unit reels through designated sales channels with #TRMPBF suffix.

** Versions of this part are available with controlled manufacturing to support the quality and reliability requirements of automotive applications. These models are designated with a #W suffix. Only the automotive grade products shown are available for use in automotive applications. Contact your local Analog Devices account representative for specific product ordering information and to obtain the specific Automotive Reliability reports for these models.

## ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS

The l denotes the specifications which apply over the full operating temperature range, otherwise specifications are at T A  = 25°C. V IN  = 12V, EN/UVLO = 12V unless otherwise noted.

| PARAMETER                              | CONDITIONS                                          |     | MIN          | TYP         | MAX          | UNITS   |
|----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|-----|--------------|-------------|--------------|---------|
| V IN Operating Voltage Range           |                                                     | l   | 3            |             | 40           | V       |
| V IN Quiescent Current at Shutdown     | V EN/UVLO = 0.2V                                    | l   |              | 0.9 2       | 2 5          | µA µA   |
|                                        | V EN/UVLO = 1.5V                                    | l   |              | 2 3.6       | 5 9.5        | µA µA   |
| V IN Quiescent Current                 | Sleep Mode, Not Switching                           | l   |              | 5.5 8.5     | 10 15        | µA µA   |
|                                        | Active Mode, Not Switching                          | l   |              | 780 840     | 1100 1200    | µA µA   |
| FBX Regulation                         |                                                     |     |              |             |              |         |
| FBX Regulation Voltage                 | FBX > 0V FBX < 0V                                   | l l | 1.568 -0.820 | 1.6 -0.80   | 1.632 -0.780 | V V     |
| FBX Line Regulation                    | FBX > 0V, 3V < V IN < 40V FBX < 0V, 3V < V IN < 40V |     |              | 0.005 0.005 | 0.015 0.015  | %/V %/V |
| FBX Pin Current                        | FBX = 1.6V, -0.8V                                   | l   | -10          |             | 10           | nA      |
| Oscillator                             |                                                     |     |              |             |              |         |
| Switching Frequency (f OSC )           | V IN = 24V                                          | l   | 1.85         | 2.0         | 2.15         | MHz     |
| Minimum On-Time                        | V IN = 24V                                          |     |              | 65          | 105          | ns      |
| Minimum Off-Time                       | V IN = 24V                                          |     |              | 47          | 65           | ns      |
| Switch                                 |                                                     |     |              |             |              |         |
| Maximum Switch Current Limit Threshold |                                                     | l   | 1.0          | 1.2         | 1.4          | A       |
| Switch R DS(ON)                        | I SW = 0.5A                                         |     |              | 330         |              | mΩ      |
| Switch Leakage Current                 | V SW = 60V                                          |     |              | 0.1         | 1            | µA      |
| EN/UVLO Logic                          |                                                     |     |              |             |              |         |
| EN/UVLO Pin Threshold (Rising)         | Start Switching                                     | l   | 1.620        | 1.68        | 1.745        | V       |
| EN/UVLO Pin Threshold (Falling)        | Stop Switching                                      | l   | 1.556        | 1.60        | 1.644        | V       |
| EN/UVLO Pin Current                    | V EN/UVLO = 1.6V                                    | l   | -40          |             | 100          | nA      |
| Soft-Start                             |                                                     |     |              |             |              |         |
| Soft-Start Time                        | V IN = 24V                                          |     |              | 1           |              | ms      |

Note 1: Stresses beyond those listed under Absolute Maximum Ratings may cause permanent damage to the device. Exposure to any Absolute Maximum Rating condition for extended periods may affect device reliability and lifetime.

Note 2: INTV CC  cannot be externally driven. No additional components or loading is allowed on this pin.

Note 3: The LT8330E is guaranteed to meet performance specifications from 0°C to 125°C junction temperature. Specifications over the -40°C to 125°C operating junction temperature range are assured by design, characterization and correlation with statistical process controls. The

LT8330I is guaranteed over the full -40°C to 125°C operating junction temperature range. The LT8330J and LT8330H are guaranteed over the full -40°C to 150°C operating junction temperature range. High junction temperatures degrade operating lifetimes. Operating lifetime is derated at junction temperatures greater than 125°C.

Note 4: The IC includes overtemperature protection that is intended to protect the device during overload conditions. Junction temperature will exceed 150°C when overtemperature protection is active. Continuous operation above the specified maximum operating junction temperature will reduce lifetime.

<!-- image -->

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS

FBX Positive Regulation Voltage vs Temperature

2

<!-- image -->

5

7

5

Switching Frequency vs Temperature

2

5

7

5

<!-- image -->

8330 G04

Switch Current Limit vs Duty Cycle

<!-- image -->

8330 G07

FBX Negative Regulation Voltage vs Temperature

2

5

7

5

8330 G02

Switching Frequency vs V IN

<!-- image -->

5

2

5

4

5

8330 G05

Switch Minimum On-Time vs Temperature

<!-- image -->

2

5

7

5

<!-- image -->

FBX VOL TAGE (V)

4

5

2

EN/UVLO Pin Thresholds vs Temperature

2

5

7

5

<!-- image -->

8330 G03

Normalized Switching Frequency vs FBX Voltage

7

5

<!-- image -->

5

Switch Minimum Off-Time vs Temperature

5

<!-- image -->

Rev. D

2

5

7

5

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS

VIN  Pin Current (Sleep Mode, Not Switching) vs Temperature

2

<!-- image -->

5

7

5

Switching Waveforms (in CCM)

VIN  Pin Current (Active Mode, Not Switching) vs Temperature

2

5

7

5

8330 G11

<!-- image -->

Switching Waveforms (in DCM/Light Burst Mode)

VOUT  T ransient Response: Load Current T ransients from 67.5mA to 135mA to 67.5mA

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

Burst Frequency vs Load Current

<!-- image -->

2

.

5

<!-- image -->

8330 G12

Switching Waveforms (in Deep Burst Mode)

<!-- image -->

VOUT  T ransient Response: Load Current T ransients from 5mA to 135mA to 5mA

<!-- image -->

## PIN FUNCTIONS

EN/UVLO: Shutdown and Undervoltage Detect Pin. The LT8330 is  shut  down  when  this  pin  is  low  and  active when this pin is high. Below an accurate 1.6V threshold the part enters undervoltage lockout and stops switching. This allows an undervoltage lockout (UVLO) threshold to be programmed for system input voltage  by resistively dividing down system input voltage to the EN/UVLO pin. An 80mV pin hysteresis ensures part switching resumes when the pin exceeds 1.68V. EN/UVLO pin voltage below 0.2V reduces V IN   current  below  1µA.  If  shutdown  and UVLO features are not required, the pin can be tied directly to system input.

FBX: Voltage  Regulation  Feedback  Pin  for  Positive  or Negative Outputs. Connect this pin to a resistor divider between the output and GND. FBX reduces the switching frequency during start-up and fault conditions when FBX is close to GND.

GND: Ground Connection for the LT8330. The DFN package has the best thermal performance due to an exposed pad (Pin 9) on the bottom of the package. This exposed pad must be soldered to a ground plane. Pin 5 of the DFN package (and Pin 2 of the TSOT package) should also be connected to a ground plane. The ground plane should be connected to large copper layers to spread heat dissipated by the LT8330.

INTV CC : Regulated  3V  Supply  for  Internal  Loads.  The INTV CC   pin  must  be  bypassed  with  a  minimum  1µF  low  ESR ceramic capacitor to ground. No additional components or loading is allowed on this pin.

NC: No Internal Connection. Tie directly to local ground.

SW: The Output of Internal Power Switch. Minimize the metal trace area connected to this pin to reduce EMI.

VIN : Input Supply. This pin must be locally bypassed. Be sure to place the positive terminal of the input capacitor as close as possible to the V IN  pin, and the negative terminal as close as possible to the GND pin.

## BLOCK DIAGRAM

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

8330 BD

## OPERATION

The LT8330 uses a fixed frequency, current mode control scheme to provide excellent line and load regulation. Operation can be best understood by referring to the Block Diagram. An internal 2MHz oscillator turns on the internal power switch at the beginning of each clock cycle. Current in  the  inductor  then  increases  until  the  current  comparator trips and turns off the power switch. The peak inductor current at which the switch turns off is controlled by the voltage on the internal VC node. The error amplifier servos the VC node by comparing the voltage on the FBX pin with an internal reference voltage (1.60V or -0.80V, depending on the chosen topology). When the load current increases it  causes a reduction in the FBX pin voltage relative to the internal reference. This causes the error amplifier to increase the VC voltage until the new load current is satisfied. In this manner, the error amplifier sets the correct peak switch current level to keep the output in regulation.

The LT8330 is capable of generating either a positive or negative output voltage with a single FBX pin. It can be configured as a boost or SEPIC converter to generate a positive output voltage, or as an inverting converter to

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## ACHIEVING ULTRALOW QUIESCENT CURRENT

To  enhance  efficiency  at  light  loads  the  LT8330  uses a  low  ripple  Burst  Mode  architecture.  This  keeps  the output capacitor charged to the desired output voltage while minimizing the input quiescent current and output ripple. In Burst Mode operation the LT8330 delivers single small pulses of current to the output capacitor followed by sleep periods where the output power is supplied by the  output  capacitor.  While  in  sleep  mode  the  LT8330 consumes only 6µA.

As the output load decreases, the frequency of single current pulses decreases (see Figure 1) and the percentage of time the LT8330 is in sleep mode increases, resulting in much higher light load efficiency than for typical converters. To optimize the quiescent current performance at light loads, the current in the feedback resistor divider must be minimized as it appears to the output as load current. In addition, all possible leakage currents from

<!-- image -->

generate a negative output voltage. When configured as a boost converter, as shown in the Block Diagram, the FBX pin is pulled up to the internal bias voltage of 1.60V by a voltage divider (R1 and R2) connected from V OUT to GND. Amplifier A2 becomes inactive and amplifier A1 performs (inverting) amplification from FBX to VC. When the LT8330 is in an inverting configuration, the FBX pin is pulled down to -0.80V by a voltage divider from V OUT to GND. Amplifier A1 becomes inactive and amplifier A2 performs (non-inverting) amplification from FBX to VC.

If  the  EN/UVLO pin voltage is below 1.6V, the LT8330 enters undervoltage lockout (UVLO), and stops switching. When the EN/UVLO pin voltage is above 1.68V (typical), the LT8330 resumes switching. If the EN/UVLO pin voltage is below 0.2V, the LT8330 only draws 1µA from V IN .

To optimize efficiency at light loads, the LT8330 operates in Burst Mode operation in light load situations. Between bursts, all circuitry associated with controlling the output switch is shut down, reducing the input supply current to 6µA.

the output should also be minimized as they all add to the equivalent output load. The largest contributor to leakage current can be due to the reverse biased leakage of the Schottky diode (see Diode Selection in the Applications Information section).

2

<!-- image -->

.

5

Figure 1. Burst Frequency vs Load Current

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

While in Burst Mode operation the current limit of the switch is approximately 240mA resulting in the output voltage ripple shown in Figure 2. Increasing the output capacitance will decrease the output ripple proportionally. As the output load ramps upward from zero the switching frequency will increase but only up to the fixed 2MHz defined by the internal oscillator as shown in Figure 1. The output load at which the LT8330 reaches the fixed 2MHz frequency varies based on input voltage, output voltage, and inductor choice.

Figure 2. Burst Mode Operation

<!-- image -->

## PROGRAMMING INPUT TURN-ON AND TURN-OFF THRESHOLDS WITH EN/UVLO PIN

The EN/UVLO pin voltage controls whether the LT8330 is enabled or is in a shutdown state. A 1.6V reference and a comparator A6 with built-in  hysteresis  (typical  80mV)  allow the user to accurately program the system input voltage at which the IC turns on and off (see the Block Diagram). The typical input falling and rising threshold voltages can be calculated by the following equations:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

VIN  current is reduced below 1µA when the EN/UVLO pin voltage is less than 0.2V. The EN/UVLO pin can be connected directly to the input supply V IN  for always-enabled operation. A logic input can also control the EN/UVLO pin.

When operating in Burst Mode operation for light load currents, the current through the R3 and R4 network can easily be greater than the supply current consumed by the LT8330. Therefore, R3 and R4 should be large enough to minimize their effect on efficiency at light loads.

## INTV CC  REGULATOR

A low dropout (LDO) linear regulator, supplied from V IN , produces a 3V supply at the INTV CC  pin. A minimum 1µF low ESR ceramic capacitor must be used to bypass the INTV CC  pin to ground to supply the high transient currents required by the internal power MOSFET gate driver.

No additional components or loading is allowed on this pin. The INTV CC  rising threshold (to allow soft start and switching) is typically 2.6V. The INTV CC  falling threshold (to stop switching and reset soft start) is typically 2.5V.

## DUTY CYCLE CONSIDERATION

The LT8330 minimum on-time, minimum off-time and switching frequency (f OSC ) define the allowable minimum and maximum duty cycles of the converter (see Minimum On-Time, Minimum Off-Time, and Switching Frequency in the Electrical Characteristics table).

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The required switch duty cycle range for a Boost converter operating in continuous conduction mode (CCM) can be calculated as:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where V D  is the diode forward voltage drop. If the above duty cycle calculations for a given application violate the minimum and/or maximum allowed duty cycles for the LT8330,  operation  in  discontinuous  conduction  mode (DCM) might provide a solution. For the same V IN  and VOUT  levels, operation in DCM does not demand as low a duty cycle as in CCM. DCM also allows higher duty cycle operation than CCM. The additional advantage of DCM is the removal of the limitations to inductor value and duty cycle required to avoid sub-harmonic oscillations and the right half plane zero (RHPZ). While DCM provides these benefits,  the  trade-off  is  higher  inductor  peak  current,  lower available output power and reduced efficiency.

<!-- image -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## SETTING THE OUTPUT VOLTAGE

The output voltage is programmed with a resistor divider from the output to the FBX pin. Choose the resistor values for a positive output voltage according to:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Choose the resistor values for a negative output voltage according to:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The locations of R1 and R2 are shown in the Block Diagram. 1% resistors are recommended to maintain output voltage accuracy.

Higher-value FBX divider  resistors  result  in  the  lowest  input quiescent current and highest light-load efficiency. FBX divider resistors R1 and R2 are usually in the range from 25k to 1M. Most applications use a phase-lead capacitor from V OUT   to  FBX  in  combination  with  high-value  FBX divider resistors (see Compensation in the Applications Information section).

## SOFT-START

The LT8330 contains several features to limit peak switch currents  and  output  voltage  (V OUT )  overshoot  during start-up or recovery from a fault condition. The primary purpose of these features is to prevent damage to external components or the load.

High peak switch currents during start-up may occur in switching regulators. Since V OUT  is far from its final value, the feedback loop is saturated and the regulator tries to charge the  output  capacitor  as  quickly  as  possible,  resulting in large peak currents. A large surge current may cause inductor saturation or power switch failure.

The LT8330 addresses this mechanism with an internal soft-start function. As shown in the Block Diagram, the soft-start function controls the ramp of the power switch current by controlling the ramp of VC through M2. This allows the  output  capacitor  to  be  charged  gradually  toward its final value while limiting the start-up peak currents. Figure 3 shows the output voltage and supply current for the first page Typical Application. It can be seen that both the output voltage and supply current come up gradually.

<!-- image -->

Figure 3. Soft-Start Waveforms

<!-- image -->

INTV CC   undervoltage  (INTV CC   &lt;  2.5V)  and/or  thermal lockout (T J  &gt; 170°C) will immediately prevent switching, will reset the internal soft-start function and will pull down VC. Once all faults are removed, the LT8330 will soft-start VC and hence inductor peak current.

## FREQUENCY FOLDBACK

During start-up or fault conditions in which V OUT  is very low,  extremely  small  duty  cycles  may  be  required  to maintain control of inductor peak current. The minimum on-time limitation of the power switch might prevent these low duty cycles from being achievable. In this scenario inductor  current  rise  will  exceed  inductor  current  fall  during each cycle, causing inductor current to 'walk up' beyond the switch current limit. The LT8330 provides protection from this by folding back switching frequency whenever FBX pin is close to GND (low V OUT  levels). This frequency foldback  provides  a  larger  switch-off  time,  allowing  inductor current to fall enough each cycle (see Normalized Switching Frequency vs FBX Voltage in the Typical Performance Characteristics section).

## THERMAL LOCKOUT

If  the LT8330 die temperature reaches 170°C (typical), the part will stop switching and go into thermal lockout. When the die temperature has dropped by 5°C (nominal), the part will resume switching with a soft-started inductor peak current.

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## SWITCHING FREQUENCY AND INDUCTOR SELECTION

The LT8330 switches at 2MHz, allowing small value inductors  to  be  used.  0.68µH  to  10µH  will  usually  suffice.  Choose an inductor  that  can  handle  at  least  1.4A  without  saturating, and ensure that the inductor has a low DCR (copper-wire resistance) to minimize I 2 R power losses. Note that in some applications, the current handling requirements of the inductor can be lower, such as in the SEPIC topology where  each  inductor  only  carries  one-half  of  the  total switch current. For better efficiency, use similar valued inductors with a larger volume. Many different sizes and shapes are available from various manufacturers. Choose a core material that has low losses at 2MHz, such as a ferrite core. The final value chosen for the inductor should not allow peak inductor currents to exceed 1A in steady state at maximum load. Due to tolerances, be sure to account for minimum possible inductance value, switching frequency and converter efficiency.

Table 1. Inductor Manufacturers

| Sumida    | (847) 956-0666   | www.sumida.com    |
|-----------|------------------|-------------------|
| TDK       | (847) 803-6100   | www.tdk.com       |
| Murata    | (714) 852-2001   | www.murata.com    |
| Coilcraft | (847) 639-6400   | www.coilcraft.com |
| Würth     | (605) 886-4385   | www.we-online.com |

## INPUT CAPACITOR

Bypass the input of the LT8330 circuit with a ceramic capacitor of X7R or X5R type placed as close as possible to the V IN  and GND pins. Y5V types have poor performance over temperature and applied voltage, and should not be used. A 4.7µF to 10µF ceramic capacitor is adequate to bypass the LT8330 and will easily handle the ripple current. If the input power source has high impedance, or there is significant inductance due to long wires or cables, additional bulk capacitance may be necessary. This can be provided with a low performance electrolytic capacitor.

A precaution regarding the ceramic input capacitor concerns the maximum input voltage rating of the LT8330. A ceramic input capacitor combined with trace or cable inductance forms a high quality (under damped) tank circuit. If the LT8330 circuit is plugged into a live supply, the input voltage can ring to twice its nominal value, possibly exceeding the LT8330's voltage rating. This situation is easily avoided (see Application Note 88).

## OUTPUT CAPACITOR AND OUTPUT RIPPLE

Low ESR (equivalent series resistance) capacitors should be used at the output to minimize the output ripple voltage. Multilayer ceramic capacitors are an excellent choice, as they are small and have extremely low ESR. Use X5R or X7R types. This choice will provide low output ripple and good transient response. A 4.7µF to 15µF output capacitor is sufficient for most applications, but systems with very low output currents may need only a 1µF or 2.2µF output capacitor.  Solid  tantalum  or  OS-CON  capacitor  can  be used, but they will occupy more board area than a ceramic and will have a higher ESR. Always use a capacitor with a sufficient voltage rating.

## COMPENSATION

The LT8330 is internally compensated. The decision to use either  low  ESR  (ceramic)  capacitors  or  the  higher ESR  (tantalum  or  OS-CON)  capacitors,  for  the  output capacitor, can affect the stability of the overall system. The  ESR  of  any  capacitor,  along  with  the  capacitance itself, contributes a zero to the system. For the tantalum and OS-CON capacitors, this zero is located at a lower frequency due to the higher value of the ESR, while the zero of a ceramic capacitor is at a much higher frequency and can generally be ignored.

A phase lead  zero  can  be  intentionally  introduced  by  placing a capacitor in parallel with the resistor between V OUT  and FBX. By  choosing  the  appropriate  values  for  the  resistor  and capacitor, the zero frequency can be designed to improve the  phase  margin  of  the  overall  converter.  The  typical  target value for the zero frequency is between 30kHz to 60kHz.

A practical approach to compensation is to start with one of the circuits in this data sheet that is similar to your application. Optimize performance by adjusting the output capacitor and/or the feed forward capacitor (connected across the feedback resistor from output to FBX pin).

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## CERAMIC CAPACITORS

Ceramic capacitors are small, robust and have very low ESR. However, ceramic capacitors can cause problems when used with  the  LT8330  due  to  their  piezoelectric  nature. When in Burst Mode operation, the LT8330's switching frequency depends on the load current, and at very light loads the LT8330 can excite the ceramic capacitor at audio frequencies, generating audible noise. Since the LT8330 operates at a lower current limit during Burst Mode operation, the noise is typically very quiet to a casual ear. If this is unacceptable, use a high performance tantalum or electrolytic capacitor at the output. Low noise ceramic capacitors are also available.

Table 2. Ceramic Capacitor Manufacturers

| Taiyo Yuden   | (408) 573-4150   | www.t-yuden.com   |
|---------------|------------------|-------------------|
| AVX           | (803) 448-9411   | www.avxcorp.com   |
| Murata        | (714) 852-2001   | www.murata.com    |

## DIODE SELECTION

A Schottky diode is  recommended for use  with  the LT8330. Low leakage  Schottky  diodes  are  necessary  when  low

<!-- image -->

quiescent current  is  desired  at  low  loads.  The  diode  leakage appears as an equivalent load at the output and should be minimized. Choose Schottky diodes with sufficient reverse voltage ratings for the target applications.

Table 3. Recommended Schottky Diodes

| PART NUMBER   | AVERAGE FORWARD CURRENT (mA)   | REVERSE VOLTAGE (V)   |   REVERSE CURRENT (µA) | MANUFACTURER   |
|---------------|--------------------------------|-----------------------|------------------------|----------------|
| PMEG6010CEJ   | ≤1000                          | ≤60                   |                     50 | NXP            |
| PMEG6030EP    | ≤3000                          | ≤60                   |                    200 | NXP            |

## LAYOUT HINTS

The high speed operation of the LT8330 demands careful attention to board layout. Careless layout will result in performance degradation. Figure 4a shows the recommended component placement for the ThinSOT package. Figure 4b shows the recommended component placement for the DFN package. Note the vias under the exposed pad. These should connect to a local ground plane for better thermal performance.

Figure 4. Suggested Layout - (a) ThinSOT, (b) DFN

<!-- image -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## THERMAL CONSIDERATIONS

Care should be taken in the layout of the PCB to ensure good heat sinking of the LT8330. The DFN package has the best thermal performance due to an exposed pad (Pin 9) on the bottom of the package. This exposed pad must be soldered to a ground plane. Pin 5 of the DFN package (and Pin 2 of the TSOT package) should also be connected to a ground plane. The ground plane should be connected to large  copper  layers  to  spread  heat  dissipated  by  the  LT8330 and to further reduce the thermal resistance ( θ JA ) values listed in the Pin Configuration section. Power dissipation within  the  LT8330  (P DISS\_LT8330 )  can  be  estimated  by subtracting the inductor and Schottky diode power losses from the total power losses calculated in an efficiency measurement. The junction temperature of LT8330 can then be estimated by,

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

## ADDITIONAL TOPOLOGIES : SEPIC AND INVERTING

In  addition  to  the  Boost  topology,  the  LT8330  can  be configured in a SEPIC or Inverting topology. SEPIC and Inverting converters are analyzed below.

## SEPIC CONVERTER APPLICATIONS

The LT8330 can be configured as a SEPIC (single-ended primary inductance converter), as shown in Figure 5. This topology allows for the input to be higher, equal, or lower than the desired output voltage. The conversion ratio as a function of duty cycle is:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

in continuous conduction mode (CCM).

In a SEPIC converter, no DC path exists between the input and output. This is an advantage over the boost converter for applications requiring the output to be disconnected from the input source when the circuit is in shutdown.

## SEPIC Converter: Switch Duty Cycle and Frequency

For a SEPIC converter operating in CCM, the duty cycle of the main switch can be calculated based on the output voltage  (V OUT ),  the  input  voltage  (V IN )  and  the  diode forward voltage (V D ).

The maximum duty cycle (D MAX )  occurs  when  the  converter operates at the minimum input voltage:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Conversely, the minimum duty cycle (D MIN ) occurs when the converter operates at the maximum input voltage:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Be sure to check that D MAX  and D MIN  obey:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

and

DMIN  &gt; Minimum On-Time (MAX)  • f OSC(MAX)

where Minimum Off-Time, Minimum On-Time and f OSC are specified in the Electrical Characteristics table.

## SEPIC Converter: The Maximum Output Current Capability and Inductor Selection

As shown in Figure 5, the SEPIC converter contains two inductors:  L1  and  L2.  L1  and  L2  can  be  independent,  but  can

G

<!-- image -->

N

D

Figure 5. LT8330 Configured in a SEPIC Topology

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

also be wound on the same core, since identical voltages are applied to L1 and L2 throughout the switching cycle.

For  the  SEPIC  topology,  the  current  through  L1  is  the converter input current. Based on the fact that, ideally, the output power is equal to the input power, the maximum average inductor currents of L1 and L2 are:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

In a SEPIC converter, the switch current is equal to I L1  + I L2  when the power switch is on, therefore, the maximum average switch current is defined as:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

and the peak switch current is:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The  constant c in  the  preceding  equations  represents the percentage peak-to-peak ripple current in the switch, relative to I SW(MAX)(AVE) , as shown in Figure 6. Then, the switch ripple current ∆I SW  can be calculated by:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Figure 6. The Switch Current Waveform of the SEPIC Converter

<!-- image -->

The inductor ripple currents ∆I L1  and  ∆I L2 are identical:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The  inductor  ripple  current  has  a  direct  effect  on  the choice of the inductor value. Choosing smaller values of ∆I L   requires large inductances and reduces the current loop  gain  (the  converter  will  approach  voltage  mode). Accepting larger values of ∆I L  allows the use of low inductances, but results in higher input current ripple and greater core losses. It is recommended that c falls in the range of 0.2 to 0.6.

Due to the current limit of its internal power switch, the LT8330  should  be  used  in  a  SEPIC  converter  whose maximum output current (I O(MAX) ) is less than the output current capability by a sufficient margin (10% or higher is recommended):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Given an operating input voltage range, and having chosen ripple current in the inductor, the inductor value (L1 and L2 are independent) of the SEPIC converter can be determined using the following equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

For most SEPIC applications, the equal inductor values will fall in the range of 1µH to 47µH.

By making L1 = L2, and winding them on the same core, the value of inductance in the preceding equation is replaced by 2L, due to mutual inductance:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

This maintains the same ripple current and energy storage in the inductors. The peak inductor currents are:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The maximum RMS inductor currents are approximately equal to the maximum average inductor currents.

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

Based on the preceding equations, the user should choose the inductors having sufficient saturation and RMS current ratings.

## SEPIC Converter: Output Diode Selection

To maximize efficiency, a fast switching diode with a low forward drop and low reverse leakage is desirable. The average forward current in normal operation is equal to the output current.

It is recommended that the peak repetitive reverse voltage rating V RRM  is higher than V OUT  + V IN(MAX)  by a safety margin (a 10V safety margin is usually sufficient).

The power dissipated by the diode is:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where V D  is diode's forward voltage drop, and the diode junction temperature is:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The R θ JA  used in this equation normally includes the R θ JC for the device, plus the thermal resistance from the board, to the ambient temperature in the enclosure. T J  must not exceed the diode maximum junction temperature rating.

## SEPIC Converter: Output and Input Capacitor Selection

The selections of the output and input capacitors of the SEPIC converter are similar  to  those  of  the  boost  converter.

## SEPIC Converter: Selecting the DC Coupling Capacitor

The DC voltage rating of the DC coupling capacitor (C DC , as shown in Figure 5) should be larger than the maximum input voltage:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

CDC  has nearly a rectangular current waveform. During the switch off-time, the current through C DC  is I IN , while approximately -I O   flows  during  the  on-time.  The  RMS rating of the coupling capacitor is determined by the following equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

A low ESR and ESL, X5R or X7R ceramic capacitor works well for C DC .

## INVERTING CONVERTER APPLICATIONS

The LT8330 can be configured as a dual-inductor inverting topology, as shown in Figure 7. The V OUT  to V IN  ratio is:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

in continuous conduction mode (CCM).

Figure 7. A Simplified Inverting Converter

<!-- image -->

## Inverting Converter: Switch Duty Cycle and Frequency

For  an  inverting  converter  operating  in  CCM,  the  duty cycle of the main switch can be calculated based on the negative output voltage (V OUT ) and the input voltage (V IN ).

The maximum duty cycle (D MAX )  occurs  when  the  converter has the minimum input voltage:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Conversely, the minimum duty cycle (D MIN ) occurs when the converter operates at the maximum input voltage :

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

Be sure to check that D MAX  and D MIN  obey :

DMAX &lt; 1-Minimum Off-Time (MAX)  · f OSC(MAX) and

DMIN  &gt; Minimum On-Time (MAX)  • f OSC(MAX)

where Minimum Off-Time, Minimum On-Time and f OSC are specified in the Electrical Characteristics table.

## Inverting Converter: Inductor, Output Diode and Input Capacitor Selections

The selections of the inductor, output diode and input capacitor of an inverting converter are similar to those of the SEPIC converter. Please refer to the corresponding SEPIC converter sections.

## Inverting Converter: Output Capacitor Selection

The  inverting  converter  requires  much  smaller  output capacitors than those of the boost, flyback and SEPIC converters for similar output ripples. This is due to the fact that, in the inverting converter, the inductor L2 is in series with the output, and the ripple current flowing through the output capacitors  are  continuous.  The  output  ripple  voltage is produced by the ripple current of L2 flowing through the ESR and bulk capacitance of the output capacitor:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

After specifying the maximum output ripple, the user can select the output capacitors according to the preceding equation.

The ESR can be minimized by using high quality X5R or X7R dielectric ceramic capacitors. In many applications, ceramic capacitors are sufficient to limit the output voltage ripple.

The  RMS  ripple  current  rating  of  the  output  capacitor needs to be greater than:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

## Inverting Converter: Selecting the DC Coupling Capacitor

The DC voltage rating of the DC coupling capacitor (C DC , as shown in Figure 7) should be larger than the maximum input voltage minus the output voltage (negative voltage):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

CDC  has nearly a rectangular current waveform. During the switch off-time, the current through C DC  is I IN , while approximately -I O   flows  during  the  on-time.  The  RMS rating of the coupling capacitor is determined by the following equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

A low ESR and ESL, X5R or X7R ceramic capacitor works well for C DC .

## TYPICAL APPLICATIONS

G

<!-- image -->

N

D

R

2

8V to 16V Input, 24V Boost Converter

4

.

7

p

F

<!-- image -->

R

4

G

N

D

R

2

## 3V to 6V Input, 48V Boost Converter

G

N

D

R

2

<!-- image -->

C3: MURATA GRM32ER71H475k

4

.

7

p

F

8330 TA04

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

8330 TA03b

## Efficiency

2

4

<!-- image -->

8330 TA04b

Rev. D

## TYPICAL APPLICATIONS

## 3V to 6V Input, 24V Boost Converter

G

<!-- image -->

N

D

R

2

## 8V to 30V Input, 24V SEPIC Converter

R

4

4

.

7

p

F

<!-- image -->

C3: MURATA GRM32ER71H475k

G

N

D

R

2

Efficiency

4

<!-- image -->

2

4

<!-- image -->

8330 TA06b

## TYPICAL APPLICATIONS

4V to 36V Input, 12V SEPIC Converter

R

4

G

<!-- image -->

N

D

## 4V to 16V Input, 5V SEPIC Converter

R

4

<!-- image -->

C3: MURATA GRM21BR71C475k

G

N

D

R

2

R

2

4

.

7

p

F

4

.

7

p

F

<!-- image -->

Efficiency

<!-- image -->

8330 TA08b

## TYPICAL APPLICATIONS

## 8V to 30V Input, -24V Inverting Converter

R

4

G

<!-- image -->

N

D

## 4V to 36V Input, -12V Inverting Converter

R

4

G

<!-- image -->

N

D

## 4V to 16V Input, -5V Inverting Converter

R

4

<!-- image -->

C3: MURATA GRM21BR71C475k

- C3: MURATA GRM21BR71C475k

<!-- image -->

G

N

D

R

2

R

2

R

2

4

.

7

p

F

4

.

7

p

F

4

.

7

p

F

## Efficiency

<!-- image -->

## Efficiency

<!-- image -->

## Efficiency

<!-- image -->

## PACKAGE DESCRIPTION

## DDB Package 8-Lead Plastic DFN (3mm × 2mm)

(Reference LTC DWG # 05-08-1702 Rev C)

<!-- image -->

RECOMMENDED SOLDER PAD PITCH AND DIMENSIONS

<!-- image -->

## NOTE:

1. DRAWING CONFORMS TO VERSION (WECD-1) IN JEDEC PACKAGE OUTLINE M0-229
2. DRAWING NOT TO SCALE
3. ALL DIMENSIONS ARE IN MILLIMETERS
4. DIMENSIONS OF EXPOSED PAD ON BOTTOM OF PACKAGE DO NOT INCLUDE
5. MOLD FLASH. MOLD FLASH, IF PRESENT, SHALL NOT EXCEED 0.15mm ON ANY SIDE
5. EXPOSED PAD SHALL BE SOLDER PLATED
6. SHADED AREA IS ONLY A REFERENCE FOR PIN 1 LOCATION ON THE TOP AND BOTTOM OF PACKAGE

## PACKAGE DESCRIPTION

## NOTE:

## S6 Package 6-Lead Plastic TSOT-23

(Reference LTC DWG # 05-08-1636)

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

1. DIMENSIONS ARE IN MILLIMETERS
2. DRAWING NOT TO SCALE
3. DIMENSIONS ARE INCLUSIVE OF PLATING
4. DIMENSIONS ARE EXCLUSIVE OF MOLD FLASH AND METAL BURR
5. MOLD FLASH SHALL NOT EXCEED 0.254mm
6. JEDEC PACKAGE REFERENCE IS MO-193

<!-- image -->

## REVISION HISTORY

| REV   | DATE   | DESCRIPTION                                                                              | PAGE NUMBER   |
|-------|--------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| A     | 03/16  | Corrected V IN Quiescent Current. Corrected Typographic Errors.                          | 3 2, 22, 23   |
| B     | 09/19  | Added automotive models. Updated Equations in Inverting Converter Applications.          | 2 15          |
| C     | 04/21  | Updated description. Added J-Grade. Changed EN/UVLO Pin Current spec from 40nA to 100nA. | 1 2, 3 3      |
| D     | 06/25  | Updated Features. Updated Order Information.                                             | 1 2           |

<!-- image -->

## TYPICAL APPLICATION

R

4

C3, C4: MURATA GRM32ER71H475k

<!-- image -->

## RELATED PARTS

| PART NUMBER     | DESCRIPTION                                                        | COMMENTS                                                                                                                |
|-----------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| LT1930/LT1930A  | 1A (I SW ), 1.2MHz/2.2MHz High Efficiency Step-Up DC/DC Converter  | V IN = 2.6V to 16V, V OUT(MAX) = 34V, I Q = 4.2mA/5.5mA, I SD < 1µA, ThinSOT Package                                    |
| LT1935          | 2A (I SW ), 40V, 1.2MHz High Efficiency Step-Up DC/DC Converter    | V IN = 2.3V to 16V, V OUT(MAX) = 38V, I Q = 3mA, I SD < 1µA, ThinSOT Package                                            |
| LT3467          | 1.1A (I SW ), 1.3MHz High Efficiency Step-Up DC/DC Converter       | V IN = 2.4V to 16V, V OUT(MAX) = 40V, I Q = 1.2mA, I SD < 1µA, ThinSOT, 2mm × 3mm DFN Packages                          |
| LT3580          | 2A (I SW ), 42V, 2.5MHz, High Efficiency Step-Up DC/DC Converter   | V IN = 2.5V to 32V, V OUT(MAX) = 42V, I Q = 1mA, I SD = <1µA, 3mm × 3mm DFN-8, MSOP-8E                                  |
| LT8494          | 70V, 2A Boost/SEPIC 1.5MHz High Efficiency Step-Up DC/DC Converter | V IN = 1V to 60V (2.5V to 32V Start-Up), V OUT(MAX) = 70V, I Q = 3µA (Burst Mode operation), I SD = <1µA, 20-Lead TSSOP |
| LT8570/LT8570-1 | 65V, 500mA/250mA Boost/Inverting DC/DC Converter                   | V IN(MIN) = 2.55V, V IN(MAX) = 40V, V OUT(MAX) = ±60V, I Q = 1.2mA, I SD = <1mA, 3mm × 3mm DFN-8, MSOP-8E               |
| LT8580          | 1A (I SW ), 65V 1.5MHz, High Efficiency Step-Up DC/DC Converter    | V IN : 2.55V to 40V, V OUT(MAX) = 65V, I Q = 1.2mA, I SD = <1µA, 3mm × 3mm DFN-8, MSOP-8E                               |

<!-- image -->

For more information www.analog.com

G

N

D

D

2

R

2