<!-- lastmod 2023-09-21 -->
<!-- image -->

## 100V, 0.6A Synchronous Micropower Step-Down High Efficiency Switching Regulator

## FEATURES

- n Ultra-Wide Input Voltage Range: 3V to 100V
- n Boundary Mode Switching for Highest Efficiency
- n Output Voltage Range: 0.8V to 60V
- n Internal Synchronous Switches
- n Burst Mode ® Operation:
- n 16µA I Q  at 12V IN  to 5V OUT
- n 7µA I Q at 48V IN  to 5V OUT
- n Low Dropout: 99% Maximum Duty Cycle
- n Peak Current Mode Control
- n Programmable Undervoltage Lockout
- n Power Good Flag
- n Flexible Output Voltage T racking
- n Short-Circuit Protection
- n Low Shutdown Current: 5µA
- n Tolerates Pin Open/Short Faults
- n Thermally Enhanced 20-Lead TSSOP with High Voltage Lead Spacing

## APPLICATIONS

- n Telecom Supplies
- n Distributed Supply Regulation

## TYPICAL APPLICATION

## 12V, 0.6A Step-Down Converter

<!-- image -->

## DESCRIPTION

The LT ® 8630 is a current mode PWM step-down DC/DC converter with internal synchronous switches that provide current for output loads up to 0.6A. The wide input range of 3V to 100V makes the LT8630 suitable for regulating power from a wide variety of sources, including automotive and industrial systems and 36V to 72V telecom supplies. Variable frequency boundary mode switching maximizes efficiency across a wide range of input voltages. Low ripple Burst Mode operation enables high efficiency operation down to very low output currents while keeping the output ripple below 5mV. The soft-start feature controls the ramp rate of the output voltage, eliminating input current surge during start-up, while also providing output tracking. A power good flag signals when the output voltage is within ±7.5% of the regulated output. Undervoltage lockout can be programmed using the EN/ UV pin. Shutdown mode reduces the total quiescent current to &lt; 5µA. The LT8630 is available in a 20-lead TSSOP package with exposed pad for low thermal resistance and high voltage lead spacing.

All registered trademarks and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

<!-- image -->

8630 TA01b

## ABSOLUTE MAXIMUM RATINGS

## (Note 1)

| V IN , EN/UV, PG........................................................100V                          |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| IND, V OUT , ...................................................... 60V/-0.3V                         |
| FB, TR/SS ...................................................................4V                       |
| Operating Junction Temperature Range LT8630EFE (Note 2)............................... -40°C to 125°C |
| LT8630IFE (Note 2)................................ -40°C to 125°C                                     |
| Storage Temperature Range ..................-65°C to 150°C                                            |

## ORDER INFORMATION

| LEAD FREE FINISH   | TAPE AND REEL   | PART MARKING*   | PACKAGE DESCRIPTION   | TEMPERATURE RANGE   |
|--------------------|-----------------|-----------------|-----------------------|---------------------|
| LT8630EFE#PBF      | LT8630EFE#TRPBF | LT8630FE        | 20-Lead Plastic TSSOP | -40°C to 125°C      |
| LT8630IFE#PBF      | LT8630IFE#TRPBF | LT8630FE        | 20-Lead Plastic TSSOP | -40°C to 125°C      |

ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS The l denotes the specifications which apply over the full operating temperature range, otherwise specifications are at T J  = 25°C. V IN  = 15V, V EN/UV  = 2V, unless otherwise specified. (Note 2)

| PARAMETER                   | CONDITIONS                                                     |       | MIN   | TYP      | MAX      | UNITS    |
|-----------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|-------|-------|----------|----------|----------|
| EN/UV Voltage Threshold     | V EN/UV Rising                                                 | l     | 1.14  | 1.19     | 1.24     | V        |
| EN/UV Voltage Hysteresis    |                                                                |       | 10    | 17       | 26       | mV       |
| EN/UV Input Current         |                                                                |       |       | 5        | 100      | nA       |
| V IN Undervoltage Lockout   | V FB = 0.9V                                                    | l     | 2.74  | 2.8      | 3.05     | V        |
| Quiescent Current from V IN | V EN/UV = 0V V FB = 0.9V, V VOUT = 0V V FB = 0.9V, V VOUT = 5V | l l l |       | 5 16 3.6 | 15 50 10 | µA µA µA |

## PIN CONFIGURATION

<!-- image -->

## ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS

The

l

denotes the specifications which apply over the full operating temperature range, otherwise specifications are at T J  = 25°C. V IN  = 15V, V EN/UV  = 2V, unless otherwise specified. (Note 2)

| PARAMETER                                  | CONDITIONS                                                            |    | MIN     | TYP     | MAX     | UNITS   |
|--------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|----|---------|---------|---------|---------|
| Quiescent Current from V OUT               | V FB = 0.9V, V VOUT = 5V                                              | l  |         | 10      | 45      | µA      |
| V IN Current in Regulation                 | V VOUT = 5V, I LOAD = 100µA V VOUT = 5V, I LOAD = 1mA                 |    |         | 90 475  | 180 650 | µA µA   |
| Feedback Bias Current                      | V FB = 0.8V                                                           |    | -25     | -15     |         | nA      |
| Feedback Voltage (V FBREF )                | V VOUT = 5V, I LOAD = 100mA                                           | l  | 796     | 808     | 820     | mV      |
| Feedback Voltage Regulation                | V IN = 7V to 100V, I LOAD = 0.1A to 0.75A, V VOUT =                   |    | 792     | 808     | 824     | mV      |
| Track/Soft-Start Source Current            | V FB = 0.9V, V TR/SS = 0                                              |    | -6.5    | -4.5    | -2.5    | µA      |
| Track/Soft-Start VOH                       | V FB = 0.9V                                                           |    | 2.9     | 3.0     | 3.4     | V       |
| Track/Soft-Start Sink Current              | V FB = 0.7V, V TR/SS = 1V                                             |    | 15      | 30      | 45      | µA      |
| Track/Soft-Start VOL                       | V FB = 0V                                                             |    |         | 50      | 75      | mV      |
| Track/Soft-Start to Feedback Offset        | V TR/SS = 0.4V, V VOUT = 5V, I LOAD = 100mA                           |    | -30     | 5       | 30      | mV      |
| Track/Soft-Start Sink Current POR (Note 4) | V FB = 0.9V, V TR/SS = 0.2V                                           |    | 180     | 230     |         | µA      |
| PG Leakage Current                         | V FB = 0V, V PG = 100V                                                |    | -200    | 0       | 200     | nA      |
| PG Lower Threshold %of V FBREF (Note 5)    | V FB Rising                                                           | l  | -11.5   | -7.5    | -4.5    | %       |
| PG Upper Threshold %of V FBREF (Note 5)    | V FB Falling                                                          | l  | 4.5     | 7.5     | 11.5    | %       |
| PG Hysteresis                              |                                                                       |    | 1.4     | 1.9     | 2.3     | %       |
| PG Sink Current                            | V FB = 0.7V, V PG = 0.2V                                              |    |         | 900     |         | µA      |
| Minimum Switch ON Time                     | V IN = 95V, V VOUT = 5V, I LOAD = 0A                                  |    |         | 150     |         | ns      |
| Minimum Switch OFF Time                    | V IN = 5V, V VOUT = 5V, I LOAD = 500mA, L = 15µH                      |    |         | 2.1     |         | µs      |
| IND to V OUT Peak Current (Note 6)         | V IN = 6V                                                             |    | 1.6     | 2.0     | 2.7     | A       |
| Maximum V OUT Current in Regulation        | V IN = 10V, V VOUT = 5V, L = 15µH V IN = 50V, V VOUT = 5V, L = 15µH   | l  | 0.8 0.6 | 1.1 0.9 | 1.4 2.0 | A A     |
| Switch Pin Leakage Current                 | V SW = 0V, V IN = 100V, V EN = 0V V SW = 100V, V IN = 100V, V EN = 0V |    |         | 50 0.5  | 500 2.0 | nA µA   |
| Top Switch On-Resistance                   |                                                                       |    |         | 775     |         | mΩ      |
| Bottom Switch On-Resistance                |                                                                       |    |         | 550     |         | mΩ      |
| BST Pin Current                            | V BST = 18V                                                           |    |         | 180     |         | µA      |
| BST Pin Threshold (Note 7)                 |                                                                       |    |         | 2.4     |         | V       |

Note 1: Stresses beyond those listed under Absolute Maximum Ratings may cause permanent damage to the device. Exposure to any Absolute Maximum Rating condition for extended periods may affect device reliability and lifetime.

Note 2: The LT8630EFE is guaranteed to meet performance specifications from 0°C to 125°C junction temperature. Specifications over the -40°C to 125°C operating junction temperature range are assured by design, characterization and correlation with statistical process controls. The LT8630IFE is guaranteed over the full -40°C to 125°C operating junction temperature range.

Note 3: The LT8630 includes overtemperature protection that is intended to protect the device during thermal overload conditions. Internal junction temperature will exceed 150°C before the overtemperature circuitry becomes active.

Note 4: An internal power on reset (POR) latch is set on the positive transition of the EN/UV pin through its threshold or thermal shutdown. The output of the latch activates a current source on the TR/SS pin which typically sinks 230µA while discharging the TR/SS capacitor . The latch is reset when the TR/SS pin is driven below the soft-start POR threshold or the EN/UV pin is taken below its threshold.

Note 5: The threshold is expressed as a percentage of the feedback reference voltage.

Note 6: The IND to V OUT  peak current is defined as the maximum value of current flowing from the IND pin to the V OUT  during a switch cycle.

Note 7: The BST pin threshold is defined as the minimum voltage between the BST and SW pins to keep the top switch on. If the the voltage falls below the threshold when the top switch is on, a minimum switch off pulse will be generated.

<!-- image -->

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS

<!-- image -->

8630 G01

Efficiency at Load

I

N

I

N

8630 G04

Efficiency vs Input Voltage

<!-- image -->

9

5

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

8630 G02

Efficiency at Load

I

N

I

N

I

N

8630 G05

<!-- image -->

Shutdown Supply Current

<!-- image -->

8630 G08

9

2

9

4

8630 G07

2

5

4

5

5

7

5

9

5

<!-- image -->

8630 G03

Efficiency at Load

I

N

I

N

I

N

8630 G06

EN/UV Thresholds

<!-- image -->

2

5

7

5

<!-- image -->

8630 G09

Rev. B

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS

<!-- image -->

No Load Supply Current

<!-- image -->

8630 G13

Peak Switch Current

2

5

7

5

<!-- image -->

2

5

7

5

<!-- image -->

8630 G11

No Load Supply Current

8630 G14

<!-- image -->

Minimum On-Time

<!-- image -->

8630 G17

8630 G16

Frequency vs Load Current

<!-- image -->

Sleep Quiescent Currents

<!-- image -->

8630 G15

<!-- image -->

8630 G18

Rev. B

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS

<!-- image -->

Soft-Start T racking

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

8630 G25

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

8630 G23

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

8630 G21

PG Low Thresholds

8630 G24

Burst Waveforms

<!-- image -->

I

<!-- image -->

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS

## Burst Waveforms

<!-- image -->

I

## Load Transient Response

I

<!-- image -->

## Switching Waveforms

<!-- image -->

I

## Input Voltage T ransient Response

I

<!-- image -->

## Switching Waveforms

I

<!-- image -->

## Start-Up Dropout Performance

I

<!-- image -->

## PIN FUNCTIONS

VIN  (Pin 1): The V IN  pin powers the internal control circuitry and is monitored by an undervoltage lockout comparator . The V IN  pin is also connected to the drain of the on chip power switch. The V IN  pin has high dI/dt edges and must be decoupled to the GND pin of the device. The input decouple capacitor should be placed as close as possible to the V IN  and GND pins.

EN/UV (Pin 3): The  EN/UV  pin  is  used  to  enable  the LT8630 or to program the undervoltage lockout threshold with external resistors. The LT8630 is in shutdown mode( I Q  &lt; 5µA) when the EN/UV pin voltage is below 1.18V and active mode when the voltage exceeds 1.18V. Tie EN/UV to the V IN  pin if the EN/UV feature isn't required.

PG (Pin 5): The PG pin is an open drain output that sinks current when the feedback voltage deviates from the regulation point by ±7.5%. The PG pin has 1.6% of hysteresis.

NC6 (Pin 6): No Internal Connection. Leave this pin open or connect to GND.

DNC (Pin 7): Do Not Connect. Do not connect this pin, allow it to float.

RT (Pin 8): A 8.66k resistor must be connected between the RT pin and GND. The R T  resistor sets an internal clock reference. Do not leave pin floating.

NC9 (Pin 9): No Internal Connection. Leave this pin open or connect to GND.

TR/SS (Pin 10): A capacitor with a minimum value of 100pF must be connected between the TR/SS pin and the GND pin. The voltage ramp rate on the TR/SS pin determines the output voltage ramp rate. This pin can also be used for voltage tracking.  Do not leave this pin floating.

FB (Pin 11): The FB pin is the negative input to the error amplifier .  The  output  switches  to  regulate  this  pin  to 0.808V with respect to the GND pin.

VOUT  (Pin 12): The V OUT  pin is the output to the internal sense resistor that measures current flowing in the inductor . Connect the output capacitor from the V OUT  pin to the GND pin.

NC13 (Pin 13): No Internal Connection. Leave this pin open or connect to GND.

IND (Pin 14): The IND pin is the input to the internal sense resistor that measures current flowing in the inductor .

NC15 (Pin 15): No Internal Connection. Leave this pin open or connect to GND.

INTV CC  (Pin 16): The INTV CC  pin is the bypass pin for the internal 3V regulator . Connect a 2.2µF bypass capacitor from the INTV CC  pin to the GND pin. Do not load the INTV CC  pin with external circuitry.

BST (Pin 18): The BST pin is used to provide a drive voltage, higher than the V IN  voltage, to the topside power switch. Place a 0.1µF capacitor between the BST and SW pins as close as possible to the device.

SW (Pin 20): The SW pin is the output of the internal power switches. Place the inductor and BST capacitor as close as possible to keep the SW PCB trace short.

GND (Exposed Pad Pin 21): The exposed pad GND pin is the ONLY GROUND CONNECTION for the device. The exposed pad should be soldered to a large copper area to reduce thermal resistance. The GND pin also serves as small signal ground. For ideal operation all small signal ground paths should connect to the GND pin at a single point avoiding any high current ground returns.

## BLOCK DIAGRAM

Figure 1. Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

8630 BD

<!-- image -->

## OPERATION

The LT8630 is a monolithic, variable frequency, current mode step-down DC/DC converter. When the voltage on the EN/UV pin is below its 1.19V threshold, the LT8630 is shutdown and draws less than 5µA from the input supply. When the EN/UV pin is driven above 1.19V, the internal bias circuits turn on generating an internal regulated voltage, 0.808V feedback reference, a 4.5µA soft-start current reference, and a power on reset (POR) signal.

During power-up the POR signal is set and in turn sets the soft-start latch. When the soft-start latch is set, the TR/SS pin will be discharged to ground to ensure proper startup operation. When the TR/SS pin drops below 50mV, the soft-start latch is reset. Once the latch is reset the soft-start capacitor starts to charge with a typical value of 4.5µA.

The error amplifier is a transconductance amplifier that compares the FB pin voltage to the lowest voltage present at either the TR/SS pin or an internal 0.808V reference. Since the TR/SS pin is driven by a constant current source, a single capacitor on the soft-start pin will generate a controlled linear ramp on the output voltage. The voltage on the output of the error amplifier (internal VC node in Figure 1) sets the peak current of each switch cycle and also determines when to enable low quiescent current Burst Mode operation.

When the voltage on the VC node rises above the switching threshold, the internal clock set-pulse sets the driver flip-flop, which turns on the internal top power switch. This causes current from V IN , through the top switch, inductor , and internal sense resistor , to increase. When the voltage drop across the internal sense resistor exceeds a predetermined level set by the voltage on the internal VC node, the flip-flop is reset and the internal top switch is turned off. Once the top switch is turned off the inductor will drive the voltage on the SW pin low. The synchronous power switch will turn on, decreasing the current in the inductor until the reverse current comparator trips, indicating that the inductor current is close to zero. If the  VC  voltage  is  still  above  the  switching  threshold, the top power switch is turned on again and another cycle commences.

<!-- image -->

Comparators monitoring the FB pin voltage will pull the PG pin low if the output voltage varies more the ±7.5% from the feedback reference voltage. The PG comparators have 1.9% of hysteresis.

Provided  that  the  output  voltage  is  in  regulation  (as determined by the PG comparators), the LT8630 maximizes efficiency across a wide range of input voltages by employing a boundary mode switching scheme that minimizes switching losses. The boundary mode switching cycle is comprised of three stages: a top-switch ON phase, a bottom-switch ON phase, and a discontinuous ring phase. Figure 2 shows an example of boundary mode operation. At the beginning of a switch cycle, the internal top side power switch is turned on at the peak of the SW node discontinuous ring. The current then flows from VIN , through the top switch, inductor , and internal sense resistor to the output. Once the voltage drop across the internal sense resistor exceeds a predetermined level set by the voltage on the internal VC node, the top switch is turned off. Inductor current ceases to flow through the top switch; instead, inductor current discharges the switch  node  capacitance.  The  switch  node  voltage  is quickly driven below ground and caught by the bottom switch body diode. The bottom-switch ON phase begins with the internal low side power switch turning on with nearly zero drain-source voltage. Energy is delivered to the output as the inductor current decreases from its peak down to zero. Once the current through the internal sense resistor reaches zero, the bottom switch turns off and the switch node discontinuous ring phase begins. The inductor resonates with the stray capacitance on the switch node and causes a discontinuous ring. If the VC voltage is still above the switching threshold, the top power switch is turned on again at the peak of the discontinuous ring and another cycle commences. The switching frequency during boundary mode operation is determined by the  inductor value, input voltage, output voltage, and output current.

The regulator's maximum output current occurs when the internal VC node is driven to its maximum clamp value by the error amplifier . The value of the typical maximum

## OPERATION

switch current is 1.8A. If the current demanded by the output exceeds the maximum current dictated by the internal VC clamp, the TR/SS pin will be discharged, lowering the regulation point until the output voltage can be supported by the maximum current. Once the overload condition is removed, the regulator will soft-start from the overload regulation point.

EN/UV pin control or thermal shutdown will set the softstart latch, resulting in a complete soft-start sequence.

In light load situations (low VC voltage) , the LT8630 operates in Burst Mode to optimize efficiency. Between bursts, all circuitry associated with controlling the output switch is shut down reducing the input supply current to 16µA. In a typical application, 16µA will be consumed from the input supply when regulating with no load.

To improve efficiency across all loads, supply current to internal circuitry is sourced from the V OUT  pin when it's biased at 3.5V or above. If the V OUT  pin is below 3.5V the internal supply current is sourced from V IN .

<!-- image -->

Figure 2.

<!-- image -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## Achieving Low Quiescent Current

To enhance efficiency at light loads, the LT8630 operates in low ripple Burst Mode operation, which keeps the output capacitor charged to the desired output voltage while minimizing the input quiescent current and output voltage ripple. In Burst Mode operation the LT8630 delivers single small pulses of current to the output capacitor followed by sleep periods where the output power is supplied by the output capacitor . While in sleep mode the LT8630 consumes 16μA.

As the output load decreases, the frequency of single current pulses decreases (see Figure 3) and the percentage of time the LT8630 is in sleep mode increases, resulting in much higher light load efficiency than for typical converters. By maximizing the time between pulses, the converter quiescent current approaches 16μA for a typical application when there is no output load. Therefore, to optimize the quiescent current performance at light loads, the current in the feedback resistor divider must be minimized as it appears to the output as a load current.

<!-- image -->

8630 F03

Figure 3. Frequency vs Load Current

While in Burst Mode operation the peak inductor current is approximately 280mA resulting in output voltage ripple shown in Figure 4. Increasing the output capacitance will decrease the output ripple proportionately. As load ramps upward from zero the switching frequency will increase until the LT8630 automatically enters boundary mode operation. The output load at which the LT8630 transitions into boundary mode varies based on input voltage, output voltage, and inductor choice.

I

Figure 4. Burst Mode Operation

<!-- image -->

## Choosing the Output Voltage

The output voltage is programmed with a resistor divider between the output and the FB pin. Choose the 1% resistors according to:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Reference  designators  refer  to  the  Block  Diagram  in Figure 1.

If low input quiescent current and good light-load efficiency are desired, use large resistor values for the FB resistor divider . The current flowing in the divider acts as

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

a load current, and will increase the no-load input current to the converter , which is approximately:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where I QVIN  is the quiescent current of the LT8630 and the second term is the quiescent current drawn from the output (I QVOUT ) plus current in the feedback divider reflected to the input of the buck operating at its light load efficiency n. For a 5V application with R1 = 1MΩ and R2 = 191kΩ, the feedback divider draws 4.2µA. With V IN  = 12V I QVIN = 3.6µA, I QVOUT  = 10µA and n = 50%, the no-load quiescent current is approximately 16µA. For applications with output voltages less than 3.5V, I QVOUT  = 0µA and I QVIN  is typically 16µA. Graphs of I QVIN  and I QVOUT  vs V OUT  are in the Typical Performance Characteristics section.

When using FB resistors greater than 200k, a 4.7pF to 22pF phase lead capacitor should be connected from V OUT to FB.

## Dropout Operation

If the input voltage falls below V IN(MIN)  (dropout mode), the LT8630 will automatically reduce the switching frequency to obtain the highest possible output voltage. The lower limit on the switching frequency in dropout mode is determined by the boost threshold. When the voltage between the BST and SW pins is less than the boost threshold, a minimum off-time pulse is generated to recharge the boost capacitor .

## Inductor Selection and Maximum Output Current

The inductor , along with the input voltage, output voltage, and load current, determines the LT8630's switching  frequency.  Higher  efficiency  is  generally  achieved with a larger inductor value, which produces a lower frequency. For a given inductor type, however , as inductance is increased, DC resistance (DCR) also increases. Higher DCR translates into higher copper losses and lower current rating, both of which place an upper limit on the inductance.

A good first choice for the inductor value is 22µH. This value represents a good trade-off between a high switching frequency and high efficiency.

For applications with reduced load current or maximum input voltage requirements, a smaller inductance value may be used. However, an additional constraint on the inductor value is the LT8630's minimum discontinuous ring time interval. Use a minimum inductor value of 15µH for proper boundary mode operation.

Once the value for L is known, the type of inductor must be selected. High efficiency converters generally cannot afford the core loss found in low cost powdered iron cores, forcing the use of ferrite cores. Ferrite designs have very low core loss and are preferred at high switching frequencies, so design goals can concentrate on copper loss and preventing saturation. Ferrite core material saturates hard, which means that inductance collapses abruptly when the peak design current is exceeded. The LT8630 safely tolerates operation with a saturated inductor through the use of a high speed current mode architecture. However , inductor saturation results in an abrupt increase in inductor ripple current, power dissipation,  and output voltage ripple. In order to avoid inductor overheating and poor efficiency, an inductor should be chosen with a saturation current rating greater than the 2.7A maximum peak current limit of the LT8630.

## Maximum Output Current

The  maximum output current depends on V IN ,  V OUT , the effective switch node capacitance, and the inductor value. Provided that the inductor value is at least 15µH, the LT8630 will deliver at least 600mA of output current.

A more accurate guaranteed output current can be found from:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Where L is the output inductor value and C is the effective switch node capacitance (nominally 140pF).

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## Input Capacitor Selection

Bypass the LT8630 input with a 2.2µF or higher ceramic capacitor of X7R or X5R type placed as close as possible to the V IN  pin and ground. Y5V types have poor performance over temperature and applied voltage, and should not be used. Note that larger input capacitance is required when a lower switching frequency is used. If the input power source has high impedance, or there is significant inductance due to long wires or cables, additional bulk capacitance may be necessary. This can be provided with a low performance electrolytic capacitor .

A word of caution regarding the use of ceramic capacitors at the input. A ceramic input capacitor can combine with stray inductance to form a resonant tank circuit. If power is applied quickly (for example, by plugging the circuit into a live power source) this tank can ring, doubling the input voltage and damaging the LT8630. The solution is to either clamp the input voltage or dampen the tank circuit by adding a lossy capacitor in parallel with the ceramic capacitor . For details, see Application Note 88.

## Output Capacitor Selection

The output capacitor has two essential functions. Along with the inductor , it filters the square wave generated by the LT8630 to produce the DC output. In this role it determines the output ripple, thus low impedance at the switching frequency is important. The second function is to store energy in order to satisfy transient loads and stabilize the LT8630's control loop. Since the LT8630 uses current mode control, it does not require the presence of output capacitor series resistance (ESR) for stability. Low ESR or ceramic capacitors should be used to achieve very low output ripple and small circuit size.

A 47µF, X5R or X7R ceramic capacitor with a voltage rating greater than the desired output voltage is an excellent first choice for most applications. The 47µF output capacitor will provide low output ripple with good transient response. Increasing the value will reduce the output voltage ripple and improve transient response, but may increase application cost and require more board space. Decreasing the value may save cost and board space but will increase output voltage ripple, degrade transient performance, and may cause loop instability. Increasing or decreasing the output capacitor may require increasing or decreasing the 4.7pF feedforward capacitor placed between the V OUT  and FB pins to optimize transient response. See the Typical Application section in the data sheet for suggested output and feedforward capacitor values.

Note that even X5R and X7R type ceramic capacitors have a DC bias effect which reduces their capacitance when a DC voltage is applied. It is not uncommon for capacitors offered in the smallest case sizes to lose more than 50% of their capacitance when operated near their rated voltage. As a result it is sometimes necessary to use a larger capacitance value, larger case size, or use a higher voltage rating in order to realize the intended capacitance value. Consult the manufacturer's data for the capacitor you select to be assured of having the necessary capacitance for the application.

## Ceramic Capacitors

Ceramic capacitors are small, robust, and have very low ESR. However, ceramic capacitors can cause problems when used with the LT8630 due to their piezoelectric nature. When in Burst Mode operation, the LT8630's switching frequency depends on the load current, and at very light loads the LT8630 can excite the ceramic capacitor at audio frequencies, generating audible noise. Since the LT8630 operates at a lower current limit during Burst Mode operation, the noise is typically very quiet to the casual ear . If this noise in unacceptable, use a high performance tantalum or electrolytic capacitor at the output. Low noise ceramic capacitors are also available.

## Enable Pin

The LT8630 is in shutdown when the EN/UV pin is low and active when the pin is high. The rising threshold of the EN/UV comparator is 1.19V, with 17mV of hysteresis. The EN/UV pin can be tied to V IN  if the shutdown feature is not used, or tied to a logic level if shutdown control is required.

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

Adding a resistor divider from V IN  to EN/UV programs the LT8630 to regulate the output only when V IN  is above a desired voltage (see the Block Diagram). Typically, the EN/UV threshold is used in situations where the supply is current limited, or has a relatively high source resistance. A switching regulator draws constant power from the source, so source current increases as source voltage drops. This looks like a negative resistance load to the source and can cause the source to current limit or latch low under low source voltage conditions. The EN/UV threshold prevents the regulator from operating at source voltages where the problems might occur . This threshold can be adjusted by setting the values R3 and R4 such that they satisfy the following equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where the LT8630 will remain off until V IN  is above the EN/UV threshold. Due to the comparator's hysteresis, switching will not stop until the input falls slightly below the threshold voltage.

When operating in Burst Mode operation for light load currents, the current through the EN/UV resistor network can easily be greater than the supply current consumed by the LT8630. Therefore, the EN/UV resistors should be large to minimize their effect on efficiency at low loads.

## INTV CC  Regulator

An internal low dropout (LDO) regulator produces the 3V supply from V IN  that powers the drivers and the internal bias circuitry. The INTV CC  can supply enough current for the LT8630's circuitry and must be bypassed to ground with a minimum of 2.2µF ceramic capacitor . Good bypassing is necessary to supply the high transient currents required by the power MOSFET gate drivers. To improve efficiency, the internal regulator draws power from the V OUT  pin when the output voltage is 3.5V or higher . If the V OUT  pin is below 3.5V, the internal regulator will consume current from V IN . Applications with high input voltage and high switching frequency where the internal regulator pulls current from V IN  will increase die temperature because of the higher power dissipation across the regulator . Do not connect an external load to the INTV CC  pin.

## Soft-Start and Output Voltage T racking

The LT8630 regulates its output to the lowest voltage present at either the TR/SS pin or an internal 0.808V reference. A capacitor from the TR/SS pin to ground is charged by an internal 4.5µA current source resulting in a linear output ramp from 0V to the regulated output whose duration is given by:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

At  power-up,  a  reset  signal  (POR)  sets  the  soft-start latch and discharges the TR/SS pin to approximately 0V to ensure proper start-up. The TR/SS pin has a maximum current sink capability of 230µA. If the TR/SS pin is used as a track function for an external voltage, the maximum sink current must not be exceeded during startup. Exceeding the maximum TR/SS sink current will inhibit operation.

When the TR/SS pin is fully discharged, the latch is reset and the internal 4.5µA current source starts to charge the TR/SS pin. When the TR/SS pin voltage is below ~50mV, the V C  pin is pulled low which disables switching.

As the TR/SS pin voltage rises above 50mV, the V C  pin is released and the output voltage is regulated to the TR/SS voltage. When the TR/SS pin voltage exceeds the internal 808mV reference, the output is regulated to the reference. The TR/SS pin voltage will continue to rise to ~3V.

The soft-start latch is set during several fault conditions: EN/UV pin is below 1.19V, INTV CC  has fallen too low, V IN is too low, or thermal shutdown. Once the latch is set, the TR/SS pin will discharge to ~0V and a new startup sequence will begin.

If the load exceeds the maximum output switch current, the output will start to drop causing the internal V C  clamp to be activated. As long as the V C  node is clamped, the TR/SS pin will be discharged. As a result, the output will be regulated to the highest voltage that the maximum

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

output current can support. For example, if the output on the front page application is loaded by 4Ω the TR/SS pin will drop to 0.48V, regulating the output at 3V. Once the overload condition is removed, the output will soft-start from the temporary voltage level to the normal regulation point.

Since the TR/SS pin is pulled up to the 3V rail and has to discharge to 0.808V before taking control of regulation, momentary overload conditions will be tolerated without a sort-start recovery. The typical time before the TR/SS pin takes control is:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

## Output Power Good

When the LT8630's output voltage is within the ±7.5% window of the regulation point (V FBREF ) , typically 0.74V to 0.86V, the output voltage is considered good and the open-drain PG pin is a high impedance node, and is typically pulled high with an external resistor . Otherwise, the internal pull-down device will pull the PG pin low. To prevent glitching both the upper and lower thresholds include 1.9% of hysteresis.

The PG pin is also actively pulled low during several fault conditions: EN/UV pin is below 1.19V, V IN  undervoltage, or thermal shutdown.

## Shorted and Reverse Input Protection

If the inductor is chosen so that it won't saturate excessively, the LT8630 will tolerate a shorted output.

There is another situation to consider in systems where the output will be held high when the input to the LT8630 is absent. This may occur in battery charging applications or in battery back-up systems where a battery or some other supply is diode ORed with the LT8630's output. If  the V IN   pin is allowed to float and the EN/UV pin is held high (either by a logic signal or because it is tied to V IN ), then the LT8630's internal circuitry will pull its quiescent current through its SW pin. This is acceptable if  the system can tolerate ~6mA in this state. If the EN pin is grounded the SW pin current will drop to near 5µA.

However, if the V IN  pin is grounded while the output is held high, regardless of EN, parasitic body diodes inside the LT8630 can pull current from the output through the SW pin and the V IN  pin. Figure 5 shows a connection of the V IN  and EN/UV pins that will allow the LT8630 to run only when the input voltage is present and that protects against a shorted or reversed input.

Figure 5. Reverse Input Voltage Protection

<!-- image -->

## PCB Layout

For proper operation and minimum EMI, care must be taken during printed circuit board layout. Figure 6 shows the  recommended  component  placement  with  trace, ground plane, and via locations. Note that large, switched currents flow in the LT8630's V IN  pin and the input capacitor (C1). The loop formed by the input capacitor should be as small as possible by placing the capacitor adjacent to the V IN  pin and ground plane. When using a physically large input capacitor the resulting loop may become too large in which case using a small case/value capacitor placed close to the V IN  pin and ground plane plus a larger capacitor further away is preferred. These components, along with the inductor and output capacitor , should be placed on the same side of the circuit board, and their connections should be made on that layer . Place a local, unbroken ground plane under the application circuit on the layer closest to the surface layer . The SW and BST nodes should be as small as possible. Finally, keep the FB and RT nodes small so that the ground traces will shield them from the SW and BST nodes. The exposed pan on the bottom of the package must be soldered to ground so that the pad is connected to ground electrically and also acts as a heat sink thermally. To keep thermal resistance low, extend the ground plane as much as possible, and add thermal vias under and near the LT8630 to additional ground planes within the circuit board and on the bottom side.

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## High Temperature Considerations

For higher ambient temperatures, care should be taken in the layout of the PCB to ensure good heat sinking of the LT8630. The exposed pad on the bottom of the package must be soldered to a ground plane. This ground should be tied to large copper layers below with thermal vias; these layers will spread heat dissipated by the LT8630.

Placing additional vias can reduce thermal resistance further . The maximum load current should be derated as the ambient temperature approaches the maximum junction rating. Power dissipation within the LT8630 can be estimated by calculating the total power loss from an efficiency measurement and subtracting the inductor loss. The die temperature is calculated by multiplying the LT8630 power dissipation by the thermal resistance from junction to ambient.

If safe junction temperature is exceeded,  the LT8630 will shutdown and restart with a POR sequence.

Figure 6. Recommended PCB Layout for the LT8630

<!-- image -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## 3.3V, 0.6A Step-Down Converter

<!-- image -->

PIN NOT USED IN THIS CIRCUIT: PG

## -15V, 300mA Step-Down Converter

<!-- image -->

## TYPICAL APPLICATIONS

## Wide Input 5V and Ultralow Noise 3V Step-Down Converter

<!-- image -->

Wide Input 5V and Ultralow Noise 3.3V Application

<!-- image -->

L1: WURTH 7447714220

<!-- image -->

## TYPICAL APPLICATIONS

High Efficiency 12V Step-Down Converter

<!-- image -->

8630 TA05a

L1: B65807JR49 EPCOS RM6 CORE WITH 0.2mm CENTERPOLE GAP NINE TURNS 60/38G LITZ WIRE

28V Step-Down Converter

Efficiency vs Load Current

9

5

<!-- image -->

LT8630 Efficiency

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

7

5

7

5

9

5

I

N

I

N

## TYPICAL APPLICATIONS

## Low EMI High Step-Down Ratio 1.8V/5A Converter

<!-- image -->

## Efficiency for Cascaded LT8630/LT8640 Converter

7

5

<!-- image -->

5

2

4

8630 TA07b

5

## PACKAGE DESCRIPTION

## FE Package Variation: FE20(16) 20-Lead Plastic TSSOP (4.4mm)

(Reference LTC DWG # 05-08-1924 Rev Ø) Exposed Pad Variation CB

<!-- image -->

## NOTE:

1. CONTROLLING DIMENSION: MILLIMETERS
2. MILLIMETERS (INCHES) 2. DIMENSIONS ARE IN
3. DRAWING NOT TO SCALE
4. RECOMMENDED MINIMUM PCB METAL SIZE FOR EXPOSED PAD ATTACHMENT
5. *DIMENSIONS DO NOT INCLUDE MOLD FLASH. MOLD FLASH SHALL NOT EXCEED 0.150mm (.006") PER SIDE

<!-- image -->

## REVISION HISTORY

| REV   | DATE   | DESCRIPTION                                                                                     |   PAGE NUMBER |
|-------|--------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| A     | 01/22  | Added AEC-Q100 statement.                                                                       |             1 |
|       |        | Correct typo under Order Information device marking from 8630PE to 8630FE and added #W devices. |             2 |
| B     | 09/23  | Removed AECQ statement.                                                                         |             1 |
|       |        | Removed Automotive Supplies statement.                                                          |             1 |
|       |        | Removed Automotive Products statement.                                                          |             2 |
|       |        | Removed ** statement.                                                                           |             2 |

<!-- image -->

## TYPICAL APPLICATION

## 5V/0.6A Step-Down Converter

<!-- image -->

## RELATED PARTS

| PART NUMBER   | DESCRIPTION                                                                       | COMMENTS                                                                                                |
|---------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| LT8631        | 100V/1A Micropower Step-Down DC/DC Converter with I Q = 15µA                      | V IN : 3V to 100V, V OUT(MIN) = 0.8V, I Q = 7μA, I SD < 5µA, HV, TSSOP-20E                              |
| LT8620        | 65V, 2A, Synchronous Step-Down DC/DC, Converter                                   | V IN : 3.4V to 65V, V OUT(MIN) = 0.97V, I Q = 2.5μA, I SD < 1mA, MSOP-16E and 3mm × 5mm QFN Packages    |
| LT3991        | 55V, 1.2A, Synchronous Micropower Step-Down DC/DC, Converter with I Q = 2.8μA     | V IN : 4.2V to 55V, V OUT(MIN) = 1.20V, I Q = 2.8μA, I SD < 1μA, 3mm × 3mm DFN-10 and MSOP-10E Packages |
| LT8610        | 42V, 2.5A, High Efficiency Micropower Step-Down DC/DC, Converter with I Q = 2.5μA | V IN : 3.4V to 42V, V OUT(MIN) = 0.97V, I Q : 2.5µA, I SD : <1µA, TSSOP16E                              |
| LT8614        | 42V, 4A, High Efficiency Micropower Step-Down DC/DC, Converter with I Q = 1.7μA   | V IN : 3.4V to 42V, V OUT(MIN) = 0.97V, I Q : 1.7µA, I SD : <1µA, QFN-18                                |
| LTC ® 3630A   | 76V, 500mA Synchronous Step-Down DC/DC Converter                                  | V IN : 4V to 76V, V OUT(MIN) = 0.8V, I Q = 12μA, I SD = 3μA, 3mm × 5mm DFN-16, MSOP-16(12)E             |
| LTC3637       | 76V, 1A Nonsynchronous Step-Down DC/DC Converter                                  | V IN : 4V to 76V, V OUT(MIN) = 0.8V, I Q = 12μA, I SD = 3μA, 3mm × 5mm DFN-16, MSOP-16(12)E             |
| LTC3638       | 140V, 250mA Synchronous Step-Down DC/DC Converter                                 | V IN : 4V to 140V, V OUT(MIN) = 0.8V, I Q = 12μA, I SD < 1mA, MSOP-16E Package                          |
| LTC3639       | 150V, 100mA Synchrsonous Step-Down Regulator                                      | V IN : 4V to 150V, V OUT(MIN) = 0.8V, I Q = 12μA, I SD = 1.4μA, MSOP-16(12)E                            |

<!-- image -->

For more information www.analog.com