<!-- lastmod 2023-03-28 -->
## ABRIDGED DATA SHEET

<!-- image -->

## FEATURES

Data Sheet

LT8673

## Active Rectifier Controller with Voltage Monitoring

## GENERAL DESCRIPTION

-  Reverse Input Protection to -40V
-  Improved Performance Compared to a Schottky Diode
-  Reduce Power Dissipation by &gt; 90%
-  Reduce Drop to 20mV
-  Ultrafast Transient Response Rectifies 6V P-P Up to 50kHz Rectifies 2V P-P Up to 100kHz
-  Wide Operating Voltage Range: 3V to 42V
-  Two Integrated Comparators for Cold Crank Detection
-  Programmable Anti-glitch Filters
-  Dedicated Enable Pin (ENR)
-  Voltage Monitoring Protection Pins
-  Low 55µA Quiescent Current in Operation
-  Low 3.8µA Shutdown Current
-  Accurate 1.2V Enable Pin Threshold
-  Small 20-Lead 3mm x 4mm Side-Wettable Quad Flat No-Lead (QFN) Package
-  AEC-Q100 Qualified for Automotive Applications

## APPLICATIONS

-  Automotive Battery Protection
-  Industrial Supplies
-  Portable Instrumentation

## SIMPLIFIED APPLICATION DIAGRAM

+

<!-- image -->

001

The LT®8673 is  an  active  rectifier  controller  for  reverse input  protection  that  includes  two  independent  low  I Q comparators  with  programmable  glitch  rejection  filters for cold start pulse detection and two voltage monitoring protection pins to sense the battery voltage safely using an  external  resistive  divider  and  ADC  (analog-to-digital converter). The highly integrated comparators and active rectifier  solution  greatly  simplify  the  Bill  of  Materials (BOM) and shrinks the printed circuit board (PCB) area. The controller drives an external N-channel Metal-oxide semiconductor field-effect transistor (MOSFET) to replace a  power  Schottky  diode.  Its  very  low  quiescent  current and fast transient response meet the tough requirements in automotive applications where AC input signals of up to  100kHz  are  present.  These  signals  are  rectified  with minimum  power  dissipation  on  the  external  MOSFET, simplifying thermal management on the PCB.

With a drop of only 20mV, the LT8673 solution eases the minimum  input  voltage  requirement  during  cold  crank and  start-stop,  allowing  simpler  and  more  efficient  circuits. A fast turn-off minimizes reverse current transients if the input power source fails or is shorted. An available shutdown mode reduces the quiescent current to 3.8μA .

An  integrated  auxiliary  boost  regulator  provides  the required boost voltage to turn the external MOSFET fully on. A FAULT pin signals if the external FET is not ready to take load current.

All registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners

Figure 1. 12V, 5A Automotive Reverse Battery Protection with Voltage Monitoring

<!-- image -->

Figure 2. Rectification of Input Ripple

Tel: 781.329.4700

Data Sheet

LT8673

<!-- image -->

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS PROVIDED 'AS IS' WITHOUT REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY. NO RESPONSIBILITY IS ASSUMED BY ANALOG DEVICES FOR ITS USE, NOR FOR ANY INFRINGEMENTS OF PATENTS OR OTHER RIGHTS OF THIRD PARTIES THAT MAY RESULT FROM ITS USE. SPECIFICATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE. NO LICENCE, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, IS GRANTED UNDER ANY ADI PATENT RIGHT, COPYRIGHT, MASK WORK RIGHT, OR ANY OTHER ADI INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHT RELATING TO ANY COMBINATION, MACHINE, OR PROCESS WHICH ADI PRODUCTS OR SERVICES ARE USED. TRADEMARKS AND REGISTERED TRADEMARKS ARE THE PROPERTY OF THEIR RESPECTIVE OWNERS.

## ABRIDGED DATA SHEET