<!-- lastmod 2025-01-13 -->
## ABRIDGED DATA SHEET

<!-- image -->

Data Sheet

LTC7822

Dual-Phase Hybrid Step-Down Synchronous Controller with Load Current Monitor

## FEATURES

-  98.5% Peak Efficiency in 48V to 12V Application
-  97.8% Full Load Efficiency at 1kW Output Power
-  Wide VIN Range: 19V to 90V (100V ABS Max)
-  Output Voltage Up to 35V
-  10V Gate Drive for Optimal Efficiency
-  Output Current Monitor
-  EXTVCC Input for Improved Die Temperature
-  ±1.25% Output Voltage Accuracy
-  RSENSE or Inductor DCR Current Sensing
-  Phase-Lockable Fixed Frequency 150kHz to 1.5MHz
-  CLKOUT Pin for Multi-ICs Parallel Operation
-  Soft Switching and Low EMI Performance
-  Overtemperature and OC/OV Protection
-  48-Lead 7mm x 7mm Plastic QFN Package

## APPLICATIONS

-  54V/48V to 5V/12V Conversion
-  Intermediate Bus Converters
-  High Current Distributed Power Systems
-  Telecom, Datacom, and Storage Systems

## TYPICAL APPLICATION

<!-- image -->

## GENERAL DESCRIPTION

The LTC7822 uses an ADI-proprietary architecture that merges a soft switching charge pump topology with a dual-phase interleaved synchronous step-down converter  to  provide  superior  efficiency  and  low  EMI performance compared to traditional switching architectures. In a typical 48V to 12V application, up to 98.5% efficiency is attainable with the LTC7822.

With  reduced  switching  losses,  the  hybrid  converter allows  higher  switching  frequency  without  sacrificing much efficiency.  The  proprietary  dual-phase  topology greatly  reduces  the  capacitor  number  in  the  charge pump  stage  compared  to  the  single-phase  hybrid converters.  LTC7822  supports  both  standard  discrete inductors and coupled inductors.

The LTC7822  can be easily paralleled to provide higher output current with its accurate current sharing capability and frequency synchronization function. Current monitor provides an analog voltage reflecting the load current.

All registered trademarks and trademarks are the property of their respective owners. Protected by U.S. patents, including 11, 594, 956 and 11, 652, 415.

<!-- image -->

001

Figure 1. 12V 85A Step-Down Converter

Tel: 781.329.4700

Figure 2. Efficiency and Power Loss vs. Load Current for VOUT = 12V

## ABRIDGED DATA SHEET

<!-- image -->

ALL  INFORMATION  CONTAINED  HEREIN  IS  PROVIDED  'AS  IS'  WITHOUT REPRESENTATION  OR  WARRANTY.  NO  RESPONSIBILITY  IS ASSUMED BY ANALOG DEVICES FOR ITS USE, NOR FOR ANY INFRINGEMENTS OF PATENTS OR OTHER RIGHTS OF THIRD PARTIES THAT MAY  RESULT  FROM  ITS  USE.  SPECIFICATIONS  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE.  NO  LICENCE,  EITHER  EXPRESSED  OR IMPLIED, IS GRANTED UNDER ANY ADI PATENT RIGHT, COPYRIGHT, MASK WORK RIGHT, OR ANY OTHER ADI INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHT RELATING TO ANY COMBINATION, MACHINE, OR PROCESS, IN WHICH ADI PRODUCTS OR SERVICES ARE USED. TRADEMARKS AND REGISTERED TRADEMARKS ARE THE PROPERTY OF THEIR RESPECTIVE OWNERS. ALL ANALOG DEVICES PRODUCTS CONTAINED HEREIN ARE SUBJECT TO RELEASE AND AVAILABILITY.