<!-- lastmod 2024-04-23 -->
<!-- image -->

## FEATURES

- n Quad Output Step-Down µModule ®  Regulator with Configurable 8A Output Array
- n Ultralow Noise Silent Switcher ® 2 Architecture
- n CISPR32 Class B Compliant
- n Input Voltage Range: 2.5V to 5.5V
- n Output Voltage Range: 0.5V to 3.6V
- n 8A DC Output Current, Each Channel
- n Parallelable for Higher Output Current
- n ±1.5% Maximum Total DC Output Voltage Accuracy
- n Selectable Switching Frequency: 1MHz to 5MHz
- n Power Good Indicator
- n Die Temperature Monitoring
- n 6mm × 12mm × 3.54mm Land Grid Array (LGA) with Presolder Package

## APPLICATIONS

- n Optical Communications
- n Multi-Rail Point-of-Load Regulation
- n Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs), Digital Signal Processing (DSPs) and Application Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs) Applications
- n Telecom, Datacom, Networking System

## Low VIN, Quad 8A Silent Switcher µModule Regulator

## DESCRIPTION

The LTM ® 4710-1 is a quad DC/DC step-down µModule (micromodule) regulator with 8A per output. The package includes the switching controllers, the power MOSFETs, inductors and all supported components. Operating over an input voltage range of 2.5V to 5.5V. Channel 1's output voltage can be set by only one external resistor , where the outputs for channel 2, channel 3, and channel 4 can be set by two external resistors. All output voltages are programmable up to 3.6V.

The LTM4710-1 employs Silent Switcher 2 architecture with internal hot loop bypass capacitors to achieve both low electromagnetic interference (EMI) and high efficiency. The LTM4710-1 is packaged in a compact (6mm × 12mm × 3.54mm) LGA with presolder package and is RoHS compliant.

## Configurable Output Array

<!-- image -->

All registered trademarks and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

## TYPICAL APPLICATION

Paralleled Single Output, 32A DC/DC μModule Regulator

P

G

O

D

<!-- image -->

PINS NOT SHOWN IN THIS CIRCUIT: SSTT , SW

9

5

3

<!-- image -->

2

Rev. A

## ABSOLUTE MAXIMUM RATINGS (Note 1)

| All Pins Except GND and AGND n ................. -0.3V to 6V Operating Junction   |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Temperature (Note 2)............................. -40°C to 125°C                  |

## PIN CONFIGURATION

Storage Temperature Range .................. -55°C to 125°C Peak Solder Reflow Body Temperature ................. 250°C

(See Pin Functions, Package Pinout Description table)

<!-- image -->

## ORDER INFORMATION

|                 |                    | PART MARKING   | PART MARKING   |                    |            | TEMPERATURE RANGE   |
|-----------------|--------------------|----------------|----------------|--------------------|------------|---------------------|
| PART NUMBER     | PAD OR BALL FINISH | DEVICE         | FINISH CODE    | PACKAGE TYPE       | MSL RATING | (SEE NOTE 2)        |
| LTM4710EV-1#PBF | SAC305 (RoHS)      | 4710-1         | e1             | LGA with Presolder | 4          | -40°C to 125°C      |
| LTM4710IV-1#PBF | SAC305 (RoHS)      | 4710-1         | e1             | LGA with Presolder | 4          | -40°C to 125°C      |

-  Recommended LGA and BGA PCB Assembly and Manufacturing Procedures
-  LGA and BGA Package and Tray Drawings

## ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS

The l denotes the specifications which apply over specified internal operating junction temperature range (Note 2), otherwise specifications are at T A  = 25°C, V IN  = 3.3V, per the typical application.

| SYMBOL              | PARAMETER                                                    | CONDITIONS                                                                      |    | MIN   | TYP    | MAX   | UNITS   |
|---------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----|-------|--------|-------|---------|
| V IN                | Input DC Voltage                                             |                                                                                 | l  | 2.5   |        | 5.5   | V       |
| V OUT(RANGE)        | Output Voltage Range                                         |                                                                                 | l  | 0.5   |        | 3.6   | V       |
| V IN_UVLO           | V IN Undervoltage Lockout                                    | V IN Rising                                                                     |    | 2.0   | 2.1    | 2.2   | V       |
| V IN_UVLO_HYS       | V IN Undervoltage Lockout Hysteresis                         |                                                                                 |    |       | 150    |       | mV      |
| V RUN               | RUN Pin On-Threshold                                         | V RUN Rising                                                                    |    | 0.375 | 0.4    | 0.425 | V       |
| V RUN_HYS           | RUN Pin Hysteresis                                           |                                                                                 |    |       | 75     |       | mV      |
| I RUN               | RUN Pin Leakage Current                                      | RUN = 0.4V                                                                      |    |       |        | ±20   | nA      |
| I Q(VIN)            | Input Supply Current                                         | V OUT = 0.5V, MODE = FLOAT , FCM Shutdown, RUN = 0V (Note 5)                    |    |       | 50 2   |       | mA µA   |
| I OUT(DC)           | Output Continuous Current Range                              | V OUT = 0.5V (Note 3)                                                           |    |       |        | 8     | A       |
| ∆V OUT (LINE)/V OUT | Line Regulation Accuracy                                     | V OUT = 0.5V, V IN = 2.5V to 5.5V, I OUT = 0A                                   |    |       |        | 0.2   | %/V     |
| ∆V OUT (LOAD)/V OUT | Load Regulation Accuracy                                     | V OUT = 0.5V, I OUT = 0A to 8A                                                  | l  |       | 0.5    | 1.5   | %       |
| V OUT(AC)           | Output Ripple Voltage                                        | I OUT = 0A, V OUT = 0.5V                                                        |    |       | 12     |       | mV      |
| I SSTT              | Track Pin Soft-Start Pull-Up Current                         | V SSTT = 0.5V                                                                   |    | 7     | 10     | 13    | μA      |
| V FB                | Voltage at V FB Pin                                          |                                                                                 | l  | 0.495 | 0.50   | 0.505 | V       |
| I FB                | Current at V FB Pin                                          | (Note 4)                                                                        |    |       |        | ±20   | nA      |
| t ON(MIN)           | Minimum On-Time                                              |                                                                                 |    |       | 40     |       | ns      |
| V PG                | Power Good Rising Threshold Power Good Overvoltage Threshold | V FB as a Percentage of Regulated V OUT V FB as a Percentage of Regulated V OUT |    |       | 98 110 |       | % %     |
| I PG                | Power Good Leakage                                           | V PG = 5.5V                                                                     |    |       |        | 50    | nA      |
| f OSC               | Oscillator Frequency Range                                   |                                                                                 |    | 1     |        | 5     | MHz     |
| SYNC_RANGE          | Synchronization Frequency Range                              | R T = V IN                                                                      |    | 1.2   |        | 2.6   | MHz     |
| SYNC_LEVEL Input    | Clock Level High Clock Level Low                             | R T = V IN                                                                      |    | 1.2   |        | 0.4   | V V     |

Note 1: Stresses beyond those listed under Absolute Maximum Ratings may cause permanent damage to the device. Exposure to any Absolute Maximum Rating condition for extended periods may affect device reliability and lifetime.

Note 2: The LTM4710-1 is tested under pulsed load conditions such that T J  ≈ T A . The LTM4710E-1 is guaranteed to meet performance specifications over the 0°C to 125°C internal operating temperature range. Specifications over the full -40°C to 125°C internal operating temperature range are assured by design, characterization and correlation with statistical process controls. The LTM4710I-1 is guaranteed to meet specifications over the full -40°C to 125°C internal operating temperature range. Note that the maximum ambient temperature consistent with these specifications is determined by specific operating conditions in conjunction with board layout, the rated package thermal resistance and other environmental factors.

Note 3: See output current thermal derating curves for different V IN , V OUT and T A .

Note 4: Wafer sort tested.

Note 5: Guaranteed by design.

<!-- image -->

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS T A  = 25°C, unless otherwise noted.

<!-- image -->

3

2

47101 G01

Power Loss, 4-Channel Paralleled VIN  = 2.5V

6

<!-- image -->

3

2

47101 G04

Input vs Load Current VIN  = 2.5V, 4-Channel Paralleled

6

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

3

2

47101 G02

Power Loss, 4-Channel Paralleled VIN  = 3.3V

6

<!-- image -->

6

3

2

47101 G05

3

2

47101 G08

Efficiency, 4-Channel Paralleled VIN  = 5.5V

<!-- image -->

3

2

47101 G03

Power Loss, 4-Channel Paralleled VIN  = 5.5V

<!-- image -->

6

<!-- image -->

6

3

2

3

2

47101 G09

<!-- image -->

Rev. A

6

5

9

5

2

2

3

5

3

2

47101 G07

6

5

9

5

2

3

5

2

6

5

9

5

2

3

5

2

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS T A  = 25°C, unless otherwise noted.

<!-- image -->

47101 G10

Power Loss, Single Channel VIN   = 2.5V

2

3

5

6

<!-- image -->

47101 G13

Input vs Load Current VIN  = 2.5V, Single Channel

6

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

47101 G11

Power Loss, Single Channel VIN   = 3.3V

2

3

5

6

<!-- image -->

47101 G14

Input vs Load Current VIN   = 3.3V, Single Channel

6

Efficiency, Single Channel VIN   = 5.5V

<!-- image -->

2

3

5

6

<!-- image -->

47101 G12

Power Loss, Single Channel VIN   = 5.5V

2

3

5

2

3

5

6

6

<!-- image -->

6

47101 G15

<!-- image -->

47101 G18

Rev. A

6

5

9

5

2

3

5

2

2

3

3

5

5

6

6

47101 G16

6

5

9

5

2

3

5

2

2

3

3

5

5

6

6

47101 G17

6

5

9

5

2

3

5

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS T A  = 25°C, unless otherwise noted.

## Steady State V SW  with Persistence On

<!-- image -->

V IN  = 3.3V,  V OUT  = 0.6V, I OUT  = 30A, f SW = 1.5MHz, C OUT  = 100μF × 4

<!-- image -->

V IN  = 3.3V,  V OUT  = 0.6V, f SW = 1.5MHz, C OUT  = 100μF × 4

V IN  = 3.3V,  V OUT  = 0.6V, I OUT  = 30A, f SW = 1.5MHz, C OUT  = 100μF × 4

Load Regulation, 1V DC3164A-B Demo Board

f

<!-- image -->

V IN  = 3.3V,  V OUT  = 0.6V, f SW  = 1.5MHz,

C OUT  = 100μF × 4, C FF  = 20pF,

0A ~ 7.5A (25%) LOAD STEP, 4-PHASE

## Radiated Emissions 8A Load on Each Channel DC3164A-B, without Ferrite Bead

5

2

<!-- image -->

47101 G23

3

2

3

6

47101 G24

## PIN FUNCTIONS

<!-- image -->

PACKAGE ROW AND COLUMN LABELING MAY VARY AMONG µModule PRODUCTS. REVIEW EACH PACKAGE LAYOUT CAREFULLY .

- GND (Bank 1, Banks 10 - 12, Pin A9): Power Ground Pins for All Input and Output Returns.

VIN1, VIN2, VIN3,  VIN4  (Banks 2 - 5, Pin D9): Power Input Pins. Apply input voltage between these pins and GND pins. Recommend placing input decoupling capacitance directly between V IN  pins and GND pins.

- VOUT1,  V OUT2, VOUT3,  V OUT4  (Banks 6 - 9): Power Output Pins of Each Switching Mode Regulator . Apply output load between these pins and GND pins. Recommend placing output decoupling capacitance directly between these pins and GND pins.
- RUN1, RUN2, RUN3, RUN4 (Pins A5, F5, K5, R5): Enables chip operation by connecting RUN above 0.4V. Connecting it to GND shuts down the device.
- FB1, FB2, FB3, FB4 (Pins A6, F6, K6, R6): The negative input of the error amplifier for the switching mode regulator channel. The LTM4710-1 regulates the voltage between FB and AGND to 500mV. For FB1, this pin is internally connected to V OSNS1  with a 10k 0.5% precision resistor . Different output voltages can be programmed with an additional resistor between V OSNS1  and AGND. For FB2, FB3 and FB4, a resistor divider connecting to V OUT sets the output voltage. In PolyPhase ®  operation, tie the FB pins to V IN  to disable the internal error amplifier . See the Applications Information section for details.
- SSTT1, SSTT2, SSTT3, SSTT4 (Pins B5, G5, L5, T5): Soft-Start, T racking and Temperature Monitor Pins. An internal 10μA current into an external capacitor on the soft-start  pin  programs  the  output  voltage  ramp  rate during start-up. When SSTT is below 0.5V, the V FB  pin voltage will track the SSTT pin voltage. When SSTT is above 0.5V, the tracking function is disabled, the internal reference resumes control of the error amplifier and the SSTT pin servos to a voltage representative of a junction temperature. During shutdown and fault conditions, the SSTT pin is pulled to ground.
- COMP1b, COMP2b, COMP3b, COMP4b (Pins B6, G6, L6, T6): Internal Compensation Network. These pins are to be connected to their respective COMPa pins. When utilizing specific external compensation, float these pins.
- PG1, PG2, PG3, PG4 (Pins C5, H5, M5, U5): Output power good with open-drain logic of the switching mode regulator channel. PG is pulled to ground when the voltage on the FB pin is not within -2% and +10% of the internal 0.5V reference.
- COMP1a, COMP2a, COMP3a, COMP4a (Pins C6, H6, M6, U6): Current control threshold and error amplifier compensation point of the switching mode regulator channel.
- MODE1, MODE2, MODE3, MODE4 (Pins D5, J5, N5, V5): MODE pin facilitates multiphase operation and synchronization to an external clock. Depending on the mode of operation, the MODE either accepts a clock pulse or outputs a clock pulse at its operating frequency. See the Applications Information section for details.
- RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4 (Pins D6, J6, N6, V6): The frequency pin sets the oscillator frequency with an external resistor to AGND or sets the phasing for multiphase operation. See the Applications Information of section for frequency adjustment.
- VOSNS1  (Pin D7): Output Voltage Sense Pin of Channel 1. Internally, this pin is connected to the FB1 pin with a 10k, 0.5% precision resistor . It is very important to connect this pin to the V OUT1  since this is the feedback path and cannot be left open. See the Applications Information section for details.
- AGND1, AGND2, AGND3, AGND4 (Pins D8, H7, L7, U7): The AGND pin is the output voltage remote ground sense. Connect the AGND pin directly to the negative terminal of the output capacitor at the load and to the feedback divider resistor .
- SW1, SW2, SW3, SW4 (Pins G2, K2, N2, T2): Switching node waveform monitoring.
- NC (Pins A7, A8, B7, B8, B9, C7, C8, C9): No Connection. Leave these pins open.

## BLOCK DIAGRAM

P

G

2

<!-- image -->

P

G

3

## DECOUPLING REQUIREMENTS (Per Channel)

| SYMBOL   | PARAMETER                                                                 | CONDITIONS   | MIN   | TYP   | MAX   | UNITS   |
|----------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|-------|-------|-------|---------|
| C IN     | External Input Capacitor Requirement (V IN = 2.5V to 5.5V, V OUT = 0.5V)  | I OUT = 8A   | 22    |       |       | µF      |
| C OUT    | External Output Capacitor Requirement (V IN = 2.5V to 5.5V, V OUT = 0.5V) | I OUT = 8A   | 100   |       |       | µF      |
|          |                                                                           |              |       |       |       | Rev. A  |

<!-- image -->

F

B

2

F

B

3

5

k

## OPERATION

The  LTM4710-1  is  a  quad  output  step-down  switch mode DC/DC power supply. It integrates four separate regulators, each capable of delivering up to 8A continuous output current with few external input and output capacitors. Each regulator provides precisely regulated output voltage programmable from 0.5V to 3.6V over a 2.5V to 5.5V input voltage range. See typical application schematic (Figure 1).

The LTM4710-1 integrates four separate constant-frequency peak current mode control regulators,  power MOSFETs,  inductors,  and  other  supporting  discrete components. It employs Silent Switcher 2 technology, which allows fast switching edges for high efficiency at high switching frequencies, while simultaneously achieving good EMI performance. Ceramic Capacitors on V IN keep  all  the  fast  AC  current  loops  small,  improving EMI performance.

With current mode control and internal feedback loop compensation, the LTM4710-1 has sufficient stability margins and fast transient performance with a wide range of output capacitors, even with all ceramic output capacitors.

The switching frequency for LTM4710-1 can be adjusted by  an  external  resistor  from  RT  to  AGND,  or  the LTM4710-1 can be externally synchronized to a clock. See the Applications Information section.

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

The typical LTM4710-1 application circuit is shown in Figure 1. External component selection is primarily determined by the input voltage, the output voltage and the maximum load current. See Table 10 for specific external capacitor requirements for a particular application.

## VIN  to V OUT  Step-Down Ratios

There are restrictions in the minimum V OUT  step-down ratio that can be achieved for a given input voltage due to the minimum on-time limits of the regulator .

Current mode control provides cycle-by-cycle fast current limiting. Peak current limiting is provided in an overcurrent condition. The internal overvoltage and undervoltage comparators pull the open-drain PG output low if the output feedback voltage exits a -2% and +10% window around the regulation point. Furthermore, in an overvoltage condition, the internal top MOSFET is turned off, and the bottom MOSFET is turned on and held on until the overvoltage condition clears.

The multiphase operation can be easily configurable with synchronization and phase mode controls.

Pulling the RUN pin to GND forces the controller into its shutdown state, turning off both power MOSFETs and most of the internal control circuitry.

The SSTT pin is used for power supply tracking, soft-start programming and, and monitoring die temperature. See the Applications Information section.

Forced  continuous  mode  (FCM)  is  the  only  operation mode recommended for low ripple and low noise consideration. The switching frequency of the four channels should always be synchronized regardless the output(s) are paralleled or independent. For multiphase paralleled output, phase-shift interleaving is recommended. For independent outputs, an aligned main-switch turn-on transition is recommended. See the Applications Information section and Typical Applications for more information.

The minimum on-time limit imposes a minimum duty cycle of the converter , which can be calculated with Equation 1.

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where t ON(MIN)   is  the  minimum  on-time,  40ns typical for LTM4710-1. In the rare cases where the minimum duty cycle is surpassed, the output voltage will remain in regulation, but the switching frequency will decrease from its programmed value.

<!-- image -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## Output Voltage Programming

The  PWM  controller  has  an  internal  0.5V  reference voltage. As shown in the Block Diagram, a 10k (0.5% tolerance) internal feedback resistor is included in channel 1 only. The 10k resistor connects FB1 to V OSNS1 , which should be directly connected to the V OUT1  sense point. 10k external top feedback resistor is recommended for VOUT2,3,4  if operating independently. Adding a resistor RBOT  from FB pin to the AGND pin programs the output voltage (Equation 2).

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

## Input Decoupling Capacitors

Each channel of the LTM4710-1 module should be connected to a low AC-impedance DC source. For the regulator , at least 22µF input ceramic capacitor is recommended for RMS ripple current decoupling. Bulk input capacitors are needed when the input source impedance is compromised by long inductive leads, traces or not enough source capacitance. The bulk capacitor can be an electrolytic aluminum capacitor or polymer capacitor .

Without  considering  the  inductor  current  ripple,  the RMS current of the input capacitor can be estimated with Equation 3.

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where η is the estimated efficiency of the power module.

## Output Decoupling Capacitors

With an optimized high frequency, high bandwidth design, only a 100μF low ESR output ceramic capacitor is required for each channel to achieve low output voltage ripple and a very good transient response. Additional output filtering may be required by the system designer , if further reduction of output ripples or dynamic transient spikes is required. Table 10 shows a matrix of different output voltages and output capacitors to minimize the voltage droop and overshoot during a 2A (25%) load step transient.

The multiphase operation will reduce effective output ripple as a function of the number of phases. Application Note 77

<!-- image -->

discusses this noise reduction versus output ripple current cancellation, but the output capacitance will be more a function of stability and transient response. The LTpowerCAD ® design tool is available to download on-line for output ripple, stability and transient response analysis and calculating the output ripple reduction as the number of phases implemented increases by N times.

## Mode of Operation

The MODE pin is either  a  clock  input  or  a  clock  output.  When configured as clock input, it synchronizes the switching frequency to an external clock (see Table 1).

The  LTM4710-1  should  operate  in  forced  continuous mode (FCM) for low-noise applications.

Table 1. LTM4710-1 Single Phase Configuration

| RT PIN CONNECTION      | MODE PIN CONNECTION   | MODE OF OPERATION   | SWITCHING FREQUENCY   |
|------------------------|-----------------------|---------------------|-----------------------|
| V IN                   | Clock Input           | Forced Continuous   | External Clock        |
| Float/Resistor to AGND | Clock Output          | Forced Continuous   | R T Programmed        |

## Setting the Operating Frequency

The frequency can be programmed by tying a resistor from RT to AGND pins (Equation 4).

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where R T  is in kΩ and f SW  is the desired switching frequency in MHz.

The frequency can be programmed to switch from  1MHz to 5MHz. Table 2 shows the necessary R T  value for a desired switching frequency.

Table 2. SW Frequency vs R FREQ  Value

|   f SW (MHz) |   R T (kΩ) |
|--------------|------------|
|          1   |       1130 |
|          1.5 |        536 |
|          2   |        340 |
|          2.2 |        301 |
|          3   |        196 |
|          4   |        140 |
|          5   |        105 |

Rev. A

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## Frequency Synchronization and Clock Input

The LTM4710-1 switching frequency can be adjusted by synchronizing the internal PLL circuit to an external square wave clock applied at the MODE pin. The synchronization frequency range is 1.2MHz to 2.6MHz. The external clock amplitude must be greater than 1.2V and less than 0.4V.

The internal PLL starts up at the 2MHz default frequency. After detecting an external clock on the first rising edge of the MODE pin, the internal PLL gradually adjusts its operating frequency to match the frequency and phase of the MODE signal.

## Multiphase Operation

For output loads that demand more than 8A of current, multiple LTM4710-1 channels can be paralleled to run out of phase to provide more output current without increasing input and output voltage ripples. Table 3 shows the configuration for multiphase operation.

Table 3. LTM4710-1 Multiphase Configuration

| PHASE       | RT PIN           | FB PIN        | MODE PIN     | SWITCHING FREQUENCY   |
|-------------|------------------|---------------|--------------|-----------------------|
| Main        | V IN             | V OUT Divider | Clock Input  | External Clock        |
| Main        | Resistor to AGND | V OUT Divider | Clock Output | R T Programmed        |
| Subordinary | V IN Divider     | V IN          | Clock Input  | External Clock        |

To parallel multiple LTM4710-1 channels to achieve the same switching frequency, perfect interleaved phase shift and accurate current sharing between different channels, one of the LTM4710-1 channels will become the main channel, and the rest of the LTM4710-1 channels need to be programmed as the subordinary channels.

Connecting the RT pin of the main phase to a resistor to AGND programs the frequency and configures the MODE pin to become the clock output used to drive the MODE pin of the subordinary phase(s).

Connecting the RT pin of the main phase to V IN  configures the MODE pin to become an input capable of accepting an external clock.

Connecting the V FB  pin to V IN  configures a phase as a subordinary phase. The MODE becomes a clock input, and the voltage control loop is disabled. The subordinary phase current control loop is still active, and the peak current is controlled via the shared COMP node.

The phasing of a subordinary phase relative to the main phase is programmed with a resistor divider on the RT pin. The use of 1% resistors is recommended. See Table 4 for more information. Figure 17 shows an example.

Table 4.  Subordinary Phase Shift Related to MODE Input

|   PHASE ANGLE BETWEEN SUBORDINARY MODULE AND MODE INPUT (°) | R T RESISTOR TO V IN ( Ω )   |
|-------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------|
|                                                           0 | 0                            |
|                                                          90 | 3M                           |
|                                                         120 | 1.4M                         |
|                                                         180 | (R T = GND)                  |
|                                                         240 | 715k                         |
|                                                         270 | 332k                         |

Application Note 77 provides a detailed explanation of multiphase operation. The input RMS ripple current cancellation mathematical derivation are presented, and a graph is displayed representing the RMS ripple current reduction as a function of the number of interleaved phases (see Figure 1).

Figure 1. Input RMS Current Ratios to DC Load Current as a Function of Duty Cycle

<!-- image -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

The LTM4710-1 device is an inherently current modecontrolled device, so that parallel modules will have very good current sharing. This will balance the thermals on all channels. Connect the RUN, COMP and PG pin of each paralleling channel together and connect FB to V IN  for subordinary channels. Figure 17 shows an example of parallel operation and pin connection.

## Soft-Start/Output Voltage T racking/ Temperature Monitoring

The SSTT pin function facilitates supply sequencing, limits V IN  inrush current and reduces start-up output overshoot. An internal 10µA charge up a capacitor on the SSTT pin hence program the ramp rate of the output voltage. SSTT pin can also be externally driven by another voltage source. During the soft-start ramp, when the SSTT voltage is below 0.5V, the output voltage will proportionally track the SSTT pin voltage. When the SSTT voltage is above 0.5V, the SSTT pin will servo to a voltage proportional to the LTM4710-1 die junction temperature (see Figure 2). The SSTT capacitor is reset during shutdown, V IN  UVLO and over thermal shutdown.

Figure 2. Soft-Start and Temperature Monitor Operation

<!-- image -->

The total soft-start time can be calculated with Equation 5.

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where C SS  is the capacitance on the SSTT pin. FCM is disabled  during  the  soft-start  process  to  prevent  the current from reversing.

A  default  10nF  soft-start  cap  is  connected  to  SSTT1 inside the module, resulting in a 0.5ms default start-up time on channel 1. The presence of this cap is to simplify customers' design in most cases.

## Output Power Good

When the LTM4710-1's output voltage is within the -2% and +10%  window of the nominal regulation voltage, the output is considered good, and the open-drain PG pin goes high impedance and is typically pulled high with an external resistor . Otherwise, the internal pull-down device will pull the PG pin low. To prevent glitching both the upper and lower thresholds, include 1% of hysteresis as well as a built-in time delay, typically 100μs. The PG pin is also actively pulled low during fault conditions: RUN pin is low, V IN  is too low or in thermal shutdown.

For multiphase applications, the PG pin is used for communication between the main and sub-ordinary phases. Connect the PG pins together and pull-up to V IN  or V OUT with an external resistor . PG pins MUST be pulled higher than 490mV.

## Stability Compensation

The LTM4710-1 has already been internally optimized and compensated for all output voltages and capacitor combinations including all ceramic capacitor applications when COMPb is tied to COMPa.

Table 10 is provided for most application requirements using the optimized internal compensation. For applications that need to achieve high bandwidth control loop compensation with enough phase margin, a 68pF feed-forward capacitor is recommended from V OUT  to V FB  pin. For specific optimized requirement, disconnect COMPb from COMPa and apply a Type II C-R-C compensation network from COMPa to AGND to achieve external compensation. The LTpowerCAD design tool can be downloaded online to perform specific control loop optimization and analyze the control stability and load transient performance.

## RUN Enable

The LTM4710-1 has a precision threshold RUN pin to enable or disable the switching. When forced low, the RUN pin puts the LTM4710-1 into a low current shutdown

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

mode. The rising threshold of the RUN comparator is 400mV, with 75mV of hysteresis. It can be tied to V IN  if the shutdown feature is not used. Adding a resistor divider from V IN  to RUN programs the LTM4710-1 to regulate the output only when V IN  is above a desired voltage. Typically, this threshold, V IN(EN) , is used in situations where the input supply is current limited or has a relatively high source resistance. A switching regulator draws constant power from the source, so the source current increases as the source voltage drops. This looks like a negative resistance load to the source and can cause the source to current limit or latch low under low source voltage conditions. The V IN(EN)  threshold prevents the regulator from operating at source voltages where problems may occur . This threshold can be adjusted by setting the values R1 and R2 such that they satisfy Equation 6.

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where the LTM4710-1 will remain off until V IN  is above VIN(EN) . Due to the comparator's hysteresis, switching will not stop until the input falls slightly below V IN(EN) .

Alternatively, a resistor divider from an output of another channel to the RUN pin of the LTM4710-1 provides eventbased power-up sequencing, enabling the LTM4710-1 when  the  output  of  the  other  regulator  reaches  a predetermined level.

## Thermal Considerations and Output Current Derating

The thermal resistances reported in the Pin Configuration section of this data sheet are consistent with those parameters defined by JESD51-12 and are intended for use with finite element analysis (FEA) software modeling tools that leverage the outcome of thermal modeling, simulation, and correlation to hardware evaluation performed on a µModule package mounted to a hardware test board. The motivation for providing these thermal coefficients in found in JESD51-12 ('Guidelines for Reporting and Using Electronic Package Thermal Information').

Many designers may use laboratory equipment and a test vehicle, such as the demo board, to anticipate the µModule regulator's thermal performance in their application at various electrical and environmental operating conditions to  compliment any FEA activities. Without FEA software, the thermal resistances reported in the Pin Configuration section are, in-and-of themselves, not relevant to providing guidance on thermal performance; instead, the derating curves provided in the data sheet can be used in a manner that yields insight and guidance pertaining to one's application-usage and can be adapted to correlate thermal performance to one's own application.

The Pin Configuration section typically gives three thermal coefficients explicitly defined in JESD 51-12; these coefficients are quoted or paraphrased below.

1. θ JA , the thermal resistance from junction to ambient, is the natural convection junction-to-ambient air thermal resistance measured in a one cubic foot sealed enclosure. This environment is sometimes referred to as 'still air', although natural convection causes the air to move. This value is determined with the part mounted to the demo board DC3164A-B.
2. θ JCbottom ,  the  thermal  resistance  from  junction  to bottom of the product case, is determined with all the component power dissipation flowing through the bottom of the package. In the typical module regulator , the bulk of the heat flows out the bottom of the package, but there is always heat flow out into the ambient environment. As a result, this thermal resistance value maybe useful for comparing packages, but the test conditions don't generally match the user's application.
3. θ JCtop , the thermal resistance from the junction to the top of the product case, is determined with nearly all of the component power dissipation flowing through the top of the package. As the electrical connections of the typical µModule are on the bottom of the package, it is rare for an application to operate such that most of the heat flows from the junction to the top of the part. As in the case of θ JCbottom , this value may be useful for comparing packages, but the test conditions don't generally match the user's application.

A graphical representation of the aforementioned thermal resistances is shown in Figure 3; blue resistances are contained within the μModule regulator , whereas green resistances are external to the µModule.

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

Figure 3. Graphical Representation of JESD51-12 Thermal Coefficients

<!-- image -->

Within the LTM4710-1 module, be aware that there are multiple  power  devices  and  components  dissipating power,  with  the  consequence  that  the  thermal  resistances relative to different junctions of components or die are not exactly linear to total package power loss. To reconcile this complication without sacrificing modeling simplicity-but also, not ignoring practical realities-an approach has been taken using FEA software modeling along with laboratory testing in a controlled-environment chamber to reasonably define and correlate the thermal resistance values supplied in this data sheet: (1) Initially, FEA software is used to accurately build the mechanical geometry of the µModule and the specified PCB with all of the correct material coefficients along with accurate power loss source definitions; (2) this model simulates a software-defined JEDEC environment consistent with JSED51-12 to predict power loss heat flow and temperature readings at different interfaces that enable the calculation of the JEDEC-defined thermal resistance values; (3) the model and FEA software is used to evaluate the LTM4710-1 with heat sink and airflow; (4) having solved for and analyzed these thermal resistance values and simulated various operating conditions in the software model, a thorough laboratory evaluation replicates the simulated conditions with thermocouples within a controlled-environment chamber while operating the device at the same power loss as that which was simulated. An outcome of this process and due diligence yields a set of derating curves, as shown in this datasheet.

After these laboratory tests have been performed and correlated to the LTM4710-1 model, then the θ JB  and θ BA  are summed together to provide a value that should closely equal the θ JA  value because approximately 100% of the power loss flows from the junction through the board into ambient with no airflow or top mounted heat sink.

Figure 5 and Figure 6 (3.3V and 5V) power loss curves can be used in coordination with Figure 7 through Figure 15 load current derating curves for calculating an approximate θ JA  thermal resistance for the LTM4710-1 with various heat sinking and airflow conditions. The power loss curves are taken at room temperature and are increased with  multiplicative  factors  according  to  the  junction temperature. This approximate factor is 1.2 for 120°C at junction temperature. The maximum load current is achievable while increasing ambient temperature as long as the junction temperature is less than 120°C, which is 5°C guard band from The maximum junction temperature of 125°C. When the ambient temperature reaches a point where the junction temperature is 120°C, then the load current is lowered to maintain the junction at 120°C while increasing the ambient temperature up to 120°C. The derating curves are plotted with the output current starting at 36A and the ambient temperature at 30°C. The output voltages are 0.5V, 0.8V, 1V, 1.2V, and 1.5V. Thermal models are derived from several temperature measurements in a controlled temperature chamber along with thermal modeling analysis. The junction temperatures are monitored while ambient temperature is increased with and without airflow. The power loss increase with ambient temperature change is factored into the derating curves. The junctions are maintained at 120°C maximum while lowering output current or power

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

with increasing the ambient temperature. The decreased output current will decrease the internal module loss as ambient temperature is increased. The monitored junction temperature of 120°C minus the ambient operating temperature specifies how much module temperature rise can be allowed. As an example, in Figure 13, the load current is derated to be 19.2A at 86.4°C with no air or heat sink, and the total power loss for 3.3V IN  to 1.2V OUT  at 19.2A is 2.6W (Figure 5), then multiply by the 1.2 coefficient for 120°C junction temperature, the total power loss for 4 channels is 3.2W, if 86.4°C ambient temperature is subtracted from 120°C junction temperature, the difference of the 33.6°C divided by 3.2W equals 10.5°C/W . Table 5 specifies an 11°C/W value which is very close. Table 5 to Table 9 provide equivalent thermal resistances for 0.5V, 0.8V, 1V, 1.2V and 1.5V outputs with and without airflow. The derived thermal resistances in Table 5 to Table 9 for the various conditions can be multiplied by the calculated power loss as a function of ambient temperature to derive temperature rise above ambient, thus maximum junction  temperature.  Room  temperature  power  loss

6

<!-- image -->

3

2

47101 F05

Figure 5. Power Loss, 4-Channel Paralleled V IN  = 3.3V

2

3

5

can be derived from the efficiency curves in the Typical Performance Characteristics section and adjusted with the above ambient temperature multiplicative factors. The printed circuit board is a 1.6mm thick six-layer board with two-ounce copper on all six layers. The PCB dimensions are 4.25-inch × 4.48-inch.

Figure 4. Thermal Image, LTM4710-1 Running from 3.3V Input to 0.5V, Paralleled 32A Output with No Airflow, No Heat Sink

<!-- image -->

6

<!-- image -->

3

2

47101 F06

Figure 6. Power Loss, 4-Channel Paralleled V IN  = 5.5V

2

3

5

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

3

5

<!-- image -->

47101 F07

Figure 7. Derating, 4-Channel Paralleled V IN  = 3.3V, V OUT  = 0.5V DC3164A-B Demo Board

3

5

<!-- image -->

6

5

9

5

47101 F10

Figure 10. Derating, 4-Channel Paralleled V IN  = 5V, V OUT  = 0.8V DC3164A-B Demo Board

3

5

<!-- image -->

5

6

5

9

5

47101 F13

Figure 13. Derating, 4-Channel Paralleled V IN  = 3.3V, V OUT  = 1.2V DC3164A-B Demo Board

47101 F08

Figure 8. Derating, 4-Channel Paralleled V IN  = 5V, V OUT  = 0.5V DC3164A-B Demo Board

<!-- image -->

3

5

<!-- image -->

5

6

5

9

5

47101 F0x

Figure 11. Derating, 4-Channel Paralleled V IN  = 3.3V, V OUT  = 1V DC3164A-B Demo Board

3

5

<!-- image -->

5

6

5

9

5

47101 F14

Figure 14. Derating, 4-Channel Paralleled V IN  = 5V, V OUT  = 1.2V DC3164A-B Demo Board

3

5

2

5

2

5

2

5

5

5

5

2

5

2

5

2

5

3

5

3

5

3

5

5

5

6

5

9

5

2

5

2

5

2

5

5

5

5

2

5

2

5

2

5

3

5

3

5

3

5

5

6

5

9

5

2

5

3

5

5

2

5

3

5

5

6

5

9

5

<!-- image -->

47101 F09

Figure 9. Derating, 4-Channel Paralleled V IN  = 3.3V, V OUT  = 0.8V DC3164A-B Demo Board

3

5

<!-- image -->

6

5

9

5

47101 F12

Figure 12. Derating, 4-Channel Paralleled V IN  = 5V, V OUT  = 1V DC3164A-B Demo Board

3

5

<!-- image -->

5

6

5

9

5

47101 F15

Figure 15. Derating, 4-Channel Paralleled V IN  = 5V, V OUT  = 1.5V DC3164A-B Demo Board

Rev. A

2

5

2

5

5

5

2

5

2

5

3

5

3

5

5

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## Table 5. 0.5V Output

| DERATING CURVE     | V IN (V)   | POWER LOSS CURVE   |   AIRFLOW (LFM) | HEAT SINK   |   θ JA (°C/W) |
|--------------------|------------|--------------------|-----------------|-------------|---------------|
| Figure 7, Figure 8 | 3.3, 5     | Figure 5, Figure 6 |               0 | None        |            11 |
| Figure 7, Figure 8 | 3.3, 5     | Figure 5, Figure 6 |             200 | None        |             9 |
| Figure 7, Figure 8 | 3.3, 5     | Figure 5, Figure 6 |             400 | None        |            10 |

## Table 6. 0.8V Output

| DERATING CURVE      | V IN (V)   | POWER LOSS CURVE   |   AIRFLOW (LFM) | HEAT SINK   |   θ JA (°C/W) |
|---------------------|------------|--------------------|-----------------|-------------|---------------|
| Figure 9, Figure 10 | 3.3, 5     | Figure 5, Figure 6 |               0 | None        |            14 |
| Figure 9, Figure 10 | 3.3, 5     | Figure 5, Figure 6 |             200 | None        |            10 |
| Figure 9, Figure 10 | 3.3, 5     | Figure 5, Figure 6 |             400 | None        |            11 |

## Table 7. 1.0V Output

| DERATING CURVE       | V IN (V)   | POWER LOSS CURVE   |   AIRFLOW (LFM) | HEAT SINK   |   θ JA (°C/W) |
|----------------------|------------|--------------------|-----------------|-------------|---------------|
| Figure 11, Figure 12 | 3.3, 5     | Figure 5, Figure 6 |               0 | None        |            12 |
| Figure 11, Figure 12 | 3.3, 5     | Figure 5, Figure 6 |             200 | None        |             9 |
| Figure 11, Figure 12 | 3.3, 5     | Figure 5, Figure 6 |             400 | None        |             9 |

## Table 8. 1.2V Output

| DERATING CURVE       | V IN (V)   | POWER LOSS CURVE   |   AIRFLOW (LFM) | HEAT SINK   |   θ JA (°C/W) |
|----------------------|------------|--------------------|-----------------|-------------|---------------|
| Figure 13, Figure 14 | 3.3, 5     | Figure 5, Figure 6 |               0 | None        |            12 |
| Figure 13, Figure 14 | 3.3, 5     | Figure 5, Figure 6 |             200 | None        |             9 |
| Figure 13, Figure 14 | 3.3, 5     | Figure 5, Figure 6 |             400 | None        |             9 |

## Table 9. 1.5V Output

| DERATING CURVE   |   V IN (V) | POWER LOSS CURVE   |   AIRFLOW (LFM) | HEAT SINK   |   θ JA (°C/W) |
|------------------|------------|--------------------|-----------------|-------------|---------------|
| Figure 15        |          5 | Figure 5, Figure 6 |               0 | None        |            12 |
| Figure 15        |          5 | Figure 5, Figure 6 |             200 | None        |            11 |
| Figure 15        |          5 | Figure 5, Figure 6 |             400 | None        |            10 |

## Table 10. Output Voltage Response vs Component Matrix, 6A to 8A Load Step Typical Measured Values, Freq = 1.5MHz

|   V IN (V) |   V OUT (V) | C IN CERAMIC (μF)   | C OUT1,2,3,4 CERAMIC (μF)   |   C FF (pF) |   PEAK-PEAK DERIVATION (mV) |   LOAD STEP (A) |   LOAD STEP SLEW RATE (A/μs) | R FB (kΩ)   | COMPENSATION                 |
|------------|-------------|---------------------|-----------------------------|-------------|-----------------------------|-----------------|------------------------------|-------------|------------------------------|
|        2.5 |         0.5 | 22 ×2 + 47          | 22 + 47 + 100               |          68 |                        42.2 |               2 |                            2 | Open        | Module Internal Compensation |
|        3.3 |         0.5 | 22 ×2 + 47          | 22 + 47 + 100               |          68 |                        44.9 |               2 |                            2 | Open        | Module Internal Compensation |
|        5   |         0.5 | 22 ×2 + 47          | 22 + 47 + 100               |          68 |                        48.9 |               2 |                            2 | Open        | Module Internal Compensation |
|        5.5 |         0.5 | 22 ×2 + 47          | 22 + 47 + 100               |          68 |                        49.5 |               2 |                            2 | Open        | Module Internal Compensation |
|        2.5 |         0.8 | 22 ×2 + 47          | 22 + 47 + 100               |          68 |                        54.9 |               2 |                            2 | 16.5        | Module Internal Compensation |
|        3.3 |         0.8 | 22 ×2 + 47          | 22 + 47 + 100               |          68 |                        56.9 |               2 |                            2 | 16.5        | Module Internal Compensation |
|        5   |         0.8 | 22 ×2 + 47          | 22 + 47 + 100               |          68 |                        60.3 |               2 |                            2 | 16.5        | Module Internal Compensation |
|        5.5 |         0.8 | 22 ×2 + 47          | 22 + 47 + 100               |          68 |                        60.3 |               2 |                            2 | 16.5        | Module Internal Compensation |
|        2.5 |         1   | 22 ×2 + 47          | 22 + 47 + 100               |          68 |                        58.2 |               2 |                            2 | 10          | Module Internal Compensation |
|        3.3 |         1   | 22 ×2 + 47          | 22 + 47 + 100               |          68 |                        59.6 |               2 |                            2 | 10          | Module Internal Compensation |

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

Table 10. Output Voltage Response vs Component Matrix, 6A to 8A Load Step Typical Measured Values, Freq = 1.5MHz

|   V IN (V) |   V OUT (V) | C IN CERAMIC (μF)   | C OUT1,2,3,4 CERAMIC (μF)   |   C FF (pF) |   PEAK-PEAK DERIVATION (mV) |   LOAD STEP (A) |   LOAD STEP SLEW RATE (A/μs) |   R FB (kΩ) | COMPENSATION                 |
|------------|-------------|---------------------|-----------------------------|-------------|-----------------------------|-----------------|------------------------------|-------------|------------------------------|
|        5   |         1   | 22 ×2 + 47          | 22 + 47 + 100               |          68 |                        62.9 |               2 |                            2 |       10    | Module Internal Compensation |
|        5.5 |         1   | 22 ×2 + 47          | 22 + 47 + 100               |          68 |                        61.6 |               2 |                            2 |       10    | Module Internal Compensation |
|        2.5 |         1.2 | 22 ×2 + 47          | 22 + 47 + 100               |          68 |                        71.6 |               2 |                            2 |        7.15 | Module Internal Compensation |
|        3.3 |         1.2 | 22 ×2 + 47          | 22 + 47 + 100               |          68 |                        73   |               2 |                            2 |        7.15 | Module Internal Compensation |
|        5   |         1.2 | 22 ×2 + 47          | 22 + 47 + 100               |          68 |                        79   |               2 |                            2 |        7.15 | Module Internal Compensation |
|        5.5 |         1.2 | 22 ×2 + 47          | 22 + 47 + 100               |          68 |                        82   |               2 |                            2 |        7.15 | Module Internal Compensation |
|        2.5 |         1.5 | 22 ×2 + 47          | 22 + 47 + 100               |          68 |                        78   |               2 |                            2 |        4.99 | Module Internal Compensation |
|        3.3 |         1.5 | 22 ×2 + 47          | 22 + 47 + 100               |          68 |                        80   |               2 |                            2 |        4.99 | Module Internal Compensation |
|        5   |         1.5 | 22 ×2 + 47          | 22 + 47 + 100               |          68 |                        90   |               2 |                            2 |        4.99 | Module Internal Compensation |
|        5.5 |         1.5 | 22 ×2 + 47          | 22 + 47 + 100               |          68 |                        90   |               2 |                            2 |        4.99 | Module Internal Compensation |

## Safety Considerations

The LTM4710-1 modules do not provide galvanic isolation from V IN  to V OUT . There is no internal fuse. If required, a slow blow fuse with a rating twice the maximum input current must be provided to protect each unit from catastrophic failure. The device does support thermal shutdown and overcurrent protection.

## Layout Checklist/Example

The high integration of LTM4710-1 makes the PCB board layout very simple and easy. However , to optimize its electrical and thermal performance, some layout considerations are still necessary.

- Use large PCB copper areas for high current paths, including V IN , GND and V OUT . It helps to minimize the PCB conduction loss and thermal stress.
- Place high-frequency ceramic input and output capacitors next to the V IN , GND and V OUT  pins to minimize high-frequency noise.
- Place  a  dedicated  power  ground  layer  underneath the unit.
- To minimize the via conduction loss and reduce module thermal stress, use multiple vias for interconnection between top layer and other power layers.
- Do not put via directly on the pad, unless they are capped or plated over .
- Use a separated AGND ground copper area for components connected to signal pins. See AGND in Figure 17.
- For  parallel  modules,  tie  the  V OUT ,  FB,  and  COMP pins together .  Use an internal layer to closely connect these pins together . The SSTT pin should NOT be tied together for temperature monitoring of each silicon independently.
- Bring out test points on the signal pins for monitoring.
- Solder mask-defined pin pads are recommended.

Figure 16 gives a good example of the recommended layout.

Figure 16. Recommended PCB Layout

<!-- image -->

## TYPICAL APPLICATIONS

P

G

O

D

<!-- image -->

PINS NOT SHOWN IN THIS CIRCUIT: SSTT , SW

Figure 17. Paralleled Single Output, 32A DC/DC μModule Regulator

F

B

2

<!-- image -->

F

B

3

Figure 18. 0.5V, 8A; 1V, 8A; 2V, 8A; and 3.3V, 8A Outputs from 4V to 5.5V Input, Switching Frequency Synchronized

## TYPICAL APPLICATION

<!-- image -->

Figure 19. 1V, 24A; 0.5V, 8A; Outputs from 2.5V to 5.5V Input

<!-- image -->

## PACKAGE PINOUT DESCRIPTION

<!-- image -->

PACKAGE ROW AND COLUMN LABELING MAY VARY AMONG µModule PRODUCTS. REVIEW EACH PACKAGE LAYOUT CAREFULLY .

| PIN   | PIN NAME   | PIN   | PIN NAME   | PIN   | PIN NAME   | PIN   | PIN NAME   | PIN   | PIN NAME   | PIN   | PIN NAME   |
|-------|------------|-------|------------|-------|------------|-------|------------|-------|------------|-------|------------|
| A9    | GND        | B9    | NC         | C9    | NC         | D9    | V IN1      | E9    | GND        | F9    | V OUT1     |
| A8    | NC         | B8    | NC         | C8    | NC         | D8    | AGND1      | E8    | GND        | F8    | V OUT1     |
| A7    | NC         | B7    | NC         | C7    | NC         | D7    | V OSNS1    | E7    | GND        | F7    | V OUT1     |
| A6    | FB1        | B6    | COMP1b     | C6    | COMP1a     | D6    | RT1        | E6    | GND        | F6    | FB2        |
| A5    | RUN1       | B5    | SSTT1      | C5    | PG1        | D5    | MODE1      | E5    | GND        | F5    | RUN2       |
| A4    | V IN1      | B4    | V IN1      | C4    | V IN1      | D4    | V IN1      | E4    | GND        | F4    | V IN2      |
| A3    | GND        | B3    | GND        | C3    | GND        | D3    | GND        | E3    | GND        | F3    | GND        |
| A2    | GND        | B2    | GND        | C2    | GND        | D2    | GND        | E2    | GND        | F2    | GND        |
| A1    | GND        | B1    | GND        | C1    | GND        | D1    | GND        | E1    | GND        | F1    | GND        |
| G9    | V OUT1     | H9    | GND        | J9    | V OUT2     | K9    | V OUT2     | L9    | GND        | M9    | V OUT3     |
| G8    | V OUT1     | H8    | GND        | J8    | V OUT2     | K8    | V OUT2     | L8    | GND        | M8    | V OUT3     |
| G7    | V OUT1     | H7    | AGND2      | J7    | V OUT2     | K7    | V OUT2     | L7    | AGND3      | M7    | V OUT3     |
| G6    | COMP2b     | H6    | COMP2a     | J6    | RT2        | K6    | FB3        | L6    | COMP3b     | M6    | COMP3a     |
| G5    | SSTT2      | H5    | PG2        | J5    | MODE2      | K5    | RUN3       | L5    | SSTT3      | M5    | PG3        |
| G4    | V IN2      | H4    | V IN2      | J4    | V IN2      | K4    | V IN3      | L4    | V IN3      | M4    | V IN3      |
| G3    | GND        | H3    | GND        | J3    | GND        | K3    | GND        | L3    | GND        | M3    | GND        |
| G2    | SW1        | H2    | GND        | J2    | GND        | K2    | SW2        | L2    | GND        | M2    | GND        |
| G1    | GND        | H1    | GND        | J1    | GND        | K1    | GND        | L1    | GND        | M1    | GND        |
| N9    | V OUT3     | P9    | GND        | R9    | V OUT4     | T9    | V OUT4     | U9    | GND        | V9    | GND        |
| N8    | V OUT3     | P8    | GND        | R8    | V OUT4     | T8    | V OUT4     | U8    | GND        | V8    | GND        |
| N7    | V OUT3     | P7    | GND        | R7    | V OUT4     | T7    | V OUT4     | U7    | AGND4      | V7    | GND        |
| N6    | RT3        | P6    | GND        | R6    | FB4        | T6    | COMP4b     | U6    | COMP4a     | V6    | RT4        |
| N5    | MODE3      | P5    | GND        | R5    | RUN4       | T5    | SSTT4      | U5    | PG4        | V5    | MODE4      |
| N4    | V IN3      | P4    | GND        | R4    | V IN4      | T4    | V IN4      | U4    | V IN4      | V4    | V IN4      |
| N3    | GND        | P3    | GND        | R3    | GND        | T3    | GND        | U3    | GND        | V3    | GND        |
| N2    | SW3        | P2    | GND        | R2    | GND        | T2    | SW4        | U2    | GND        | V2    | GND        |
| N1    | GND        | P1    | GND        | R1    | GND        | T1    | GND        | U1    | GND        | V1    | GND        |

## PACKAGE DESCRIPTION

<!-- image -->

## REVISION HISTORY

| REV   | DATE   | DESCRIPTION                                     | PAGE NUMBER   |
|-------|--------|-------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| 0     | 07/23  | Initial Release.                                | -             |
| A     | 04/24  | Updated Typical Application: V OUT to 1.2V/32A. | 1             |

## PACKAGE PHOTOS Part marking is either ink mark or laser mark

<!-- image -->

## DESIGN RESOURCES

| SUBJECT                                    | DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|--------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| µModule Design and Manufacturing Resources | Design: • Selector Guides • Demo Boards and Gerber Files • Free Simulation Tools                                                                                                                                                                                              | Manufacturing: • Quick Start Guide • PCB Design, Assembly and Manufacturing Guidelines • Package and Board Level Reliability                                                                                                                                                  |
| µModule Regulator Products Search          | 1. Sort table of products by parameters and download the result as a spread sheet. 2. Search using the Quick Power Search parametric table.                                                                                                                                   | 1. Sort table of products by parameters and download the result as a spread sheet. 2. Search using the Quick Power Search parametric table.                                                                                                                                   |
| Digital Power System Management            | Analog Devices' family of digital power supply management ICs are highly integrated solutions that offer essential functions, including power supply monitoring, supervision, margining and sequencing, and feature EEPROM for storing user configurations and fault logging. | Analog Devices' family of digital power supply management ICs are highly integrated solutions that offer essential functions, including power supply monitoring, supervision, margining and sequencing, and feature EEPROM for storing user configurations and fault logging. |

## RELATED PARTS

| PART NUMBER   | DESCRIPTION                                                                       | COMMENTS                                                                                   |
|---------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| LTM4691       | Low V IN , Ultrathin, Dual 2A μModule Regulator                                   | 2.25V ≤ V IN ≤ 3.6V, 0.5V ≤ V OUT ≤ 2.5V, 3mm × 4mm × 1.18mm LGA, 3mm × 4mm × 1.48mm BGA   |
| LTM4693       | Low V IN , Ultrathin, 2A Buck-Boost μModule Regulator                             | 2.6V ≤ V IN ≤ 5.5V, 1.8V ≤ V OUT ≤ 5.5V, 3.5mm × 4mm × 1.25mm LGA                          |
| LTM4663       | Ultrathin, 1.5A μModule TEC Controller                                            | 2.7V ≤ V IN ≤ 5.5V, 3.5mm × 4mm × 1.3mm LGA                                                |
| LTM4658       | Low V IN , 10A μModule Regulator                                                  | 2.25V ≤ V IN ≤ 5.5V, 0.5V ≤ V OUT ≤ V IN , 4mm × 4mm × 4.32mm LGA                          |
| LTM4670       | Low V IN , Quad 10A μModule Regulator                                             | 2.25V ≤ V IN ≤ 5.5V, 0.5V ≤ V OUT ≤ V IN , 7.5mm × 15mm × 4.65mm BGA                       |
| LTM4611       | Ultralow V IN , 15A μModule Regulator                                             | 1.5V ≤ V IN ≤ 5.5V, 0.8V ≤ V OUT ≤ 5V, 15mm × 15mm × 4.32mm LGA                            |
| LTM4643       | Low V IN with External Bias Voltage, Quad 3A μModule Regulator                    | 2.375V ≤ V IN ≤ 20V, 0.6V ≤ V OUT ≤ 3.3V, 9mm × 15mm × 1.82mm BGA, 9mm × 15mm × 2.42mm BGA |
| LTM4702       | 16V IN , 8A Ultralow Noise Silent Switcher μModule Regulator                      | 3V ≤ V IN ≤ 16V, 0.3V ≤ V OUT ≤ 5.7V, 6.25mm × 6.25mm × 5.07mm BGA                         |
| LTM8060       | Quad 40V IN , Silent Switcher μModule Regulator with Configurable 3A Output Array | 3V ≤ V IN ≤ 40V, 0.8V ≤ V OUT ≤ 8V, 11.9mm × 16mm × 3.32mm BGA                             |
| LTM8051       | Quad 40V IN Silent Switcher μModule Regulator with Configurable 1.2A Output Array | 3V ≤ V IN ≤ 40V, 0.8V ≤ V OUT ≤ 8V, 6.25mm × 11.25mm × 2.22mm BGA                          |

<!-- image -->

For more information www.analog.com