<!-- lastmod 2025-11-12 -->
<!-- image -->

## 3VIN to 40VIN Isolated µModule DC/DC Converter with LDO Post Regulator

## FEATURES

- n 2kVAC Isolated µModule Converter
- n UL60950 Recognized File E464570
- n Wide Input Voltage Range: 3V to 40V
- n VOUT1  Output:
- n Up to 450mA (V IN  = 24V ,  V OUT1  = 5V)
- n 2.5V to 18V Output Range
- n VOUT2  Low Noise Linear Post Regulator
- n Up to 300mA
- n 1.2V to 18V Output Range
- n Current Mode Control
- n User Configurable Undervoltage Lockout
- n Low Profile (9mm × 11.25mm × 4.92mm) BGA Package

## APPLICATIONS

- n Industrial Sensors
- n Industrial Switches
- n Ground Loop Mitigation

## TYPICAL APPLICATION

## 2kVAC Isolated Low Noise µModule Regulator

<!-- image -->

PIN BYP IS NOT USED IN THIS SCHEMATIC

## DESCRIPTION

The  LTM ® 8068  is  a  2kVAC  isolated  flyback  power µModule ®   (micromodule)  DC/DC  converter  with  LDO post regulator . Included in the package is the switching controller , the power switches, a transformer , the LDO, and all the supported components. Operating over an input voltage range of 3V to 40V, the LTM8068 supports an output voltage range of 2.5V to 18V, set by a single resistor . There is also a linear post regulator whose output voltage is adjustable from 1.2V to 18V as set by a single resistor . Only output and input capacitors are needed to finish the design.

The LTM8068 is packaged in a thermally enhanced, compact (9mm × 11.25mm × 4.92mm) overmolded ball grid array (BGA) package suitable for automated assembly by standard surface mount equipment. The LTM8068 is available with SnPb or RoHS-compliant terminal finish.

All registered trademarks and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

<!-- image -->

9

2

7

## ABSOLUTE MAXIMUM RATINGS

## (Note 1)

| V IN , RUN ..................................................................42V   |                                                    |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| V OUT1 Relative to V OUTN ............................................25V          |                                                    |
| V IN + V OUT1 (Note 2) .................................................45V        |                                                    |
| V OUT2 Relative to V OUTN ..........................................+20V           |                                                    |
| FB2 Relative to V OUTN                                                             | ...............................................+7V |
| GND to V OUTN Isolation (Note 3)...........................2kVAC                   |                                                    |
| Maximum Internal Temperature (Note 4)..............                                | 125°C                                              |
| Maximum Peak Body Reflow Temperature ...........                                   | 245°C                                              |
| Storage Temperature.............................. -55°C to                         | 125°C                                              |

## ORDER INFORMATION

|               |                    | PART MARKING   | PART MARKING   | PACKAGE   | MSL RATING   | TEMPERATURE RANGE   |
|---------------|--------------------|----------------|----------------|-----------|--------------|---------------------|
| PART NUMBER   | PAD OR BALL FINISH | DEVICE         | FINISH CODE    | TYPE      |              | (Note 4)            |
| LTM8068EY#PBF | SAC305 (RoHS)      | LTM8068Y       | e1             | BGA       | 3            | -40°C to 125°C      |
| LTM8068IY#PBF | SAC305 (RoHS)      | LTM8068Y       | e1             | BGA       | 3            | -40°C to 125°C      |
| LTM8068IY     | SnPb (63/37)       | LTM8068Y       | e0             | BGA       | 3            | -40°C to 125°C      |

-  Contact the factory for parts specified with wider operating temperature ranges.
-  Device temperature grade is indicated by a label on the shipping container .
-  Pad or ball finish code is per IPC/JEDEC J-STD-609.
-  Recommended LGA and BGA PCB Assembly and Manufacturing Procedures.
-  LGA and BGA Package and Tray Drawings.

## PIN CONFIGURATION

T JMAX  = 125°C, θ JA  = 18.2°C/W , θ JCbottom  = 4.8°C/W , θ JCtop  = 18.1°C/W , θ JB  = 4.8°C/W WEIGHT = 1.1g, θ VALUES DETERMINED PER JESD 51-9, 51-12

<!-- image -->

## ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS

The l denotes the specifications which apply over the full internal operating temperature range, otherwise specifications are at T A  = 25°C, RUN = 2V (Note 4).

| PARAMETER                              | CONDITIONS                                                                               |    | MIN   | TYP       | MAX            | UNITS   |
|----------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----|-------|-----------|----------------|---------|
| Minimum Input DC Voltage               | RUN = 2V                                                                                 | l  |       |           | 3              | V       |
| V OUT1 DC Voltage                      | R FB1 = 15.4k R FB1 = 8.25k R FB1 = 2.37k                                                | l  | 4.75  | 2.5 5 18  | 5.25           | V V V   |
| V IN Quiescent Current                 | V RUN = 0V Not Switching                                                                 |    |       | 7         | 3              | µA mA   |
| V OUT1 Line Regulation                 | 3V ≤ V IN ≤ 40V, I OUT = 0.1A, RUN = 2V                                                  |    |       | 1         |                | %       |
| V OUT1 Load Regulation                 | 0.05A ≤ I OUT ≤ 0.3A, RUN = 2V                                                           |    |       | 1         |                | %       |
| V OUT1 Ripple (RMS)                    | I OUT = 0.1A, 1MHz BW                                                                    |    |       | 30        |                | mV      |
| Isolation Voltage                      | (Note 3)                                                                                 |    |       | 2         |                | kV      |
| Input Short-Circuit Current            | V OUT1 Shorted                                                                           |    |       | 80        |                | mA      |
| RUN Pin Input Threshold                | RUN Pin Falling                                                                          |    | 1.18  | 1.214     | 1.25           | V       |
| RUN Pin Current                        | V RUN = 1V V RUN = 1.3V                                                                  |    |       | 2.5       | 0.1            | µA µA   |
| LDO (V OUT2 ) Minimum Input DC Voltage | (Note 5)                                                                                 |    |       | 1.5       | 2.3            | V       |
| V OUT2 Voltage Range                   | V OUT1 = 16V, R FB2 Open, No Load (Note 5) V OUT1 = 16V, R FB2 = 41.2k, No Load (Note 5) |    |       | 1.22 17.7 |                | V V     |
| FB2 Pin Voltage                        | V OUT1 = 2V, I OUT2 = 1mA (Note 5) V OUT1 = 2V, I OUT2 = 1mA (Note 5)                    | l  | 1.19  | 1.22      | 1.25           | V V     |
| V OUT2 Line Regulation                 | 2V < V OUT1 < 16V, I OUT2 = 1mA (Note 5)                                                 |    |       | 1         | 5              | mV      |
| V OUT2 Load Regulation                 | V OUT1 = 5V, 10mA ≤ I OUT2 ≤ 300mA (Note 5)                                              |    |       | 2         | 10             | mV      |
| LDO Dropout Voltage                    | I OUT2 = 10mA (Note 5) I OUT2 = 100mA (Note 5) I OUT2 = 300mA (Note 5)                   |    |       |           | 0.25 0.34 0.43 | V V V   |
| V OUT2 Ripple (RMS)                    | C BYP = 0.01µF, I OUT2 = 300mA, BW = 100Hz to 100kHz (Note 5)                            |    |       | 20        |                | µV RMS  |

Note 1: Stresses beyond those listed under Absolute Maximum Ratings may cause permanent damage to the device. Exposure to any Absolute Maximum Rating condition for extended periods may affect device reliability and lifetime.

Note 2: V IN + V OUT1  is defined as the sum of:

(V IN - GND) + (V OUT1  - V OUTN )

Note 3: The LTM8068 isolation test voltage of either 2kVAC or its equivalent of 2.83kVDC is applied for one second.

Note 4: The LTM8068E is guaranteed to meet performance specifications from 0°C to 125°C. Specifications over the -40°C to 125°C internal temperature range are assured by design, characterization and correlation with statistical process controls. The LTM8068I is guaranteed to meet specifications over the full -40°C to 125°C internal operating temperature range. Note that the maximum internal temperature is determined by specific operating conditions in conjunction with board layout, the rated package thermal resistance and other environmental factors.

Note 5: V RUN  = 0V (flyback not running), but the V OUT2  post regulator is powered by applying a voltage to V OUT1 .

<!-- image -->

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS

as in Table 1 and Table 2 (T A  = 25°C).

Efficiency vs Load Current, VOUT1  = 2.5V

Efficiency vs Load Current, VOUT1  = 8V

<!-- image -->

8068 G01

<!-- image -->

8068 G04

Input Current vs Load Current, VOUT1  = 2.5

7

5

<!-- image -->

5

7

5

2

5

8068 G07

5

2

5

7

5

Unless otherwise noted, operating conditions are

<!-- image -->

7

5

Efficiency vs Load Current, VOUT1  = 5V

8068 G02

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

8068 G05

Input Current vs Load Current, VOUT1  = 3.3V

1

2

5

<!-- image -->

8068 G03

Input Current vs Load Current, VOUT1  = 15V

7

5

<!-- image -->

8068 G06

Input Current vs Load Current, VOUT1  = 5V

8068 G09

<!-- image -->

8068 G08

5

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS

as in Table 1 and Table 2 (T A  = 25°C).

Unless otherwise noted, operating conditions are

<!-- image -->

1

2

5

5

1

5

2

5

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS

as in Table 1 and Table 2 (T A  = 25°C).

2

5

<!-- image -->

8068 G19

VOUT2  Dropout

<!-- image -->

8058 G22

Derating, 1.8V OUT2

2

5

7

5

1

2

5

8068 G25

<!-- image -->

1

5

5

1

2

°

°

°

Unless otherwise noted, operating conditions are

<!-- image -->

2

5

7

5

1

2

5

8068 G23

Derating, 2.5V OUT2

<!-- image -->

2

5

7

5

1

2

5

8068 G26

<!-- image -->

Frequency vs V OUT1  Load Current Stock DC2358A Demo Board

<!-- image -->

2

5

8068 G21

7

5

°

Derating,3.3V OUT2

<!-- image -->

2

5

7

5

1

2

5

8068 G27

<!-- image -->

Rev. D

1

2

5

°

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS

as in Table 1 and Table 2 (T A  = 25°C).

2

5

7

5

1

2

5

°

Derating, 15V OUT2

<!-- image -->

7

5

Unless otherwise noted, operating conditions are

1

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

2

5

Derating, 18V OUT2

7

5

°

<!-- image -->

2

5

7

5

1

2

5

8068 G30

2

5

°

2

5

1

2

5

7

5

2

5

°

1

2

5

°

## PIN FUNCTIONS

VOUT1  (Bank 1): V OUT1  and V OUTN  comprise the isolated output of the LTM8068 flyback stage. Apply an external capacitor between V OUT1  and V OUTN . Do not allow V OUTN to exceed V OUT1 .

VOUTN  (Bank 2): V OUTN  is the return for both V OUT1  and VOUT2 . The V OUT1  and V OUTN  comprise the isolated output of the LTM8068. In most applications, the bulk of the heat flow out of the LTM8068 is through the GND and V OUTN pads, so the printed circuit design has a large impact on the thermal performance of the part. See the PCB Layout and Thermal Considerations in the Applications Information section for more details. Apply an external capacitor between V OUT1  and V OUTN .

VOUT2  (Bank 3): The output of the secondary side linear post regulator . Apply the load and output capacitor between VOUT2  and V OUTN . See the Applications Information section  for  more  information  on  output  capacitance  and reverse output characteristics.

GND (Bank 4): This is the local ground of the LTM8068 primary. In most applications, the bulk of the heat flow out of the LTM8068 is through the GND and V OUTN  pads, so the printed circuit design has a large impact on the thermal performance of the part. See the PCB Layout and Thermal Considerations in the Applications Information section for more details.

VIN   (Bank  5): V IN   supplies  current  to  the  LTM8068's internal regulator and to the integrated power switch. These pins must be locally bypassed with an external, low ESR capacitor .

FB2 (Pin A2): This is the input to the error amplifier of the secondary side LDO post regulator . This pin is internally clamped to ±7V. The FB2 pin voltage is 1.22V referenced to V OUTN  and the output voltage range is 1.22V to 12V. Apply a resistor from this pin to V OUTN , using the equation RFB2  = 608.78/(V OUT2  - 1.22)kΩ. If the post regulator is not used, leave this pin floating.

BYP (Pin B2): The BYP pin is used to bypass the reference of the LDO to achieve low noise performance from the linear post regulator . The BYP pin is clamped internally to ±0.6V relative to V OUTN . A small capacitor from V OUT2 to this pin will bypass the reference to lower the output voltage noise. A maximum value of 0.01µF can be used for reducing output voltage noise to a typical 20µV RMS over a 100Hz to 100kHz bandwidth. If not used, this pin must be left unconnected.

RUN (Pin F3): A resistive divider connected to V IN and this pin programs the minimum voltage at which the LTM8068 will operate. Below 1.24V, the LTM8068 does not deliver power to the secondary. When RUN is less than 1.24V, the pin draws 2.5µA, allowing for a programmable hysteresis. Do not allow a negative voltage (relative to GND) on this pin.

FB1 (Pin G7): Apply a resistor from this pin to GND to set the output voltage V OUT1  relative to V OUTN , using the recommended value given in Table 1 and Table 2. If Table 1 and Table 2 do not list the desired V OUT1  value, the following equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

may be used to approximate the value. To the seasoned designer , this exponential equation may seem unusual. The  equation  is  exponential  due  to  nonlinear  current sources that are used to temperature compensate the regulation. Do not drive this pin.

Because of parametric shifts, some parts may experience noise sensitivity at the FB1 pin. This can cause the output voltage to lose regulation for higher V IN  and/or higher load conditions. Depending on your specific board layout, the printed circuit board trace capacitance may be large enough to suppress the noise and avoid this undesired behavior . As a precaution, it is recommended to add a 10pF capacitor from the FB1 pin to GND to ensure noise immunity for all operating conditions and board layout differences. See the DC2358A demo manual.

## BLOCK DIAGRAM

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

9

## OPERATION

The LTM8068 is a standalone isolated flyback switching DC/DC power supply that can deliver up to 450mA of output current at 5V OUT1 , 24V IN . This module provides a regulated output voltage programmable via one external resistor from 2.5V to 18V. It is also equipped with a high performance linear post regulator . The input voltage range of the LTM8068 is 3V to 40V. Given that the LTM8068 is a flyback converter , the output current depends upon the input and output voltages, so make sure that the input voltage is high enough to support the desired output voltage and load current. The Typical Performance Characteristics section gives several graphs of the maximum load versus VIN  for several output voltages.

A simplified block diagram is given. The LTM8068 contains  a  current  mode  controller ,  power  switching  element, power transformer , power Schottky diode, a modest amount of input and output capacitance, and a high performance linear post regulator .

The LTM8068 has a galvanic primary to secondary isolation rating of 2kVAC. For details see the Isolation, Working Voltage  and  Safety  Compliance  in  the  Applications Information section. The LTM8068 is a UL 60950 recognized component.

The RUN pin is used to turn on or off the LTM8068, disconnecting the output and reducing the input current to 1μA or less.

The LTM8068 is a variable frequency device. For a given input and output voltage, the frequency increases from light load through moderate load, then begins to decrease until full load is reached. An example of this is shown in the Typical Performance Characteristics section. For light loads, the current through the internal transformer may be discontinuous.

The post regulator is a high performance 300mA low dropout regulator with micropower quiescent current and shutdown. The device is capable of supplying 300mA at a dropout voltage of 430mV. Output voltage noise can be lowered to 20µV RMS  over a 100Hz to 100kHz bandwidth with the addition of a 0.01μF reference bypass capacitor . Additionally, this reference bypass capacitor will improve transient response of the regulator , lowering the settling time  for  transient  load  conditions.  The  linear  regulator is protected against both reverse input and reverse output voltages.

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

For most applications, the design process is straight forward, summarized as follows:

1. Look at Table 1 (or Table 2, if the post linear regulator is used) and find the row that has the desired input range and output voltage.
2. Apply the recommended C IN , C OUT1 , C OUT2 , R FB1  and RFB2  as  required.

While these component combinations have been tested for proper operation, it is incumbent upon the user to verify proper operation over the intended system's line, load and environmental conditions. Bear in mind that the maximum output current may be limited by junction temperature, the relationship between the input and output voltage magnitude and polarity and other factors. See the graphs in the Typical Performance Characteristics section for guidance.

## Capacitor Selection Considerations

The C IN , C OUT1  and C OUT2  capacitor values in Table 1 and Table 2 are the minimum recommended values for the associated operating conditions. Applying capacitor values below those indicated in Table 1 and Table 2

is  not  recommended,  and  may  result  in  undesirable operation. Using larger values is generally acceptable, and can yield improved dynamic response, if it is necessary. Again, it is incumbent upon the user to verify proper operation over the intended system's line, load and environmental conditions.

Ceramic capacitors are small, robust and have very low ESR. However, not all ceramic capacitors are suitable. The X5R and X7R types are stable over temperature and applied voltage and give dependable service. Other types, including Y5V and Z5U have very large temperature and voltage coefficients of capacitance. In an application circuit, they may have only a small fraction of their nominal capacitance resulting in much higher output voltage ripple than expected.

A final precaution regarding ceramic capacitors concerns the maximum input voltage rating of the LTM8068. A ceramic input capacitor combined with trace or cable inductance forms a high-Q (underdamped) tank circuit. If the LTM8068 circuit is plugged into a live supply, the input voltage can ring to much higher than its nominal value, possibly exceeding the device's rating. This situation is easily avoided; see the Hot-Plugging Safely in the Applications Information section.

Table 1. LTM8068 Recommended Component Values and Configuration for Specific V OUT1  Voltages (T A  = 25°C)

| V IN      | V OUT1   | C IN             | C OUT1            | R FB1   |
|-----------|----------|------------------|-------------------|---------|
| 3V to 40V | 2.5V     | 2.2µF, 50V, 1206 | 100µF, 6.3V, 1210 | 15.4k   |
| 3V to 40V | 3.3V     | 2.2µF, 50V, 1206 | 47µF, 6.3V, 1210  | 11.8k   |
| 3V to 40V | 5V       | 2.2µF, 50V, 1206 | 22µF, 16V, 1210   | 8.25k   |
| 3V to 37V | 8V       | 2.2µF, 50V, 1206 | 22µF, 16V, 1210   | 5.23k   |
| 3V to 33V | 12V      | 4.7µF, 50V, 1206 | 10µF, 50V, 1210   | 3.48k   |
| 3V to 30V | 15V      | 4.7µF, 50V, 1206 | 4.7µF, 25V, 1210  | 2.8k    |
| 3V to 27V | 18V      | 4.7µF, 50V, 1206 | 4.7µF, 25V, 1210  | 2.37k   |

Note: An input bulk capacitor is required.

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

Table 2. LTM8068 Recommended Component Values and Configuration for Specific V OUT2  Voltages (T A  = 25°C)

| V IN      | V OUT1   | V OUT2   | C IN             | C OUT1            | C OUT2           | R FB1   | R FB2   |
|-----------|----------|----------|------------------|-------------------|------------------|---------|---------|
| 3V to 40V | 1.7V     | 1.2V     | 2.2µF, 50V, 1206 | 100µF, 6.3V, 1210 | 10µF, 6.3V, 1206 | 20.5k   | open    |
| 3V to 40V | 2V       | 1.5V     | 2.2µF, 50V, 1206 | 100µF, 6.3V, 1210 | 10µF, 6.3V, 1206 | 18.2k   | 2.32M   |
| 3V to 40V | 2.4V     | 1.8V     | 2.2µF, 50V, 1206 | 100µF, 6.3V, 1210 | 10µF, 6.3V, 1206 | 15.8k   | 1.07M   |
| 3V to 40V | 3.1V     | 2.5V     | 2.2µF, 50V, 1206 | 100µF, 6.3V, 1210 | 10µF, 6.3V, 1206 | 12.7k   | 487k    |
| 3V to 40V | 3.9V     | 3.3V     | 2.2µF, 50V, 1206 | 47µF, 6.3V, 1210  | 10µF, 6.3V, 1206 | 10.5k   | 294k    |
| 3V to 38V | 5.6V     | 5V       | 2.2µF, 50V, 1206 | 22µF, 16V, 1210   | 10µF, 6.3V, 1206 | 7.32k   | 162k    |
| 3V to 36V | 8.6V     | 8V       | 2.2µF, 50V, 1206 | 22µF, 16V, 1210   | 10µF, 10V, 1206  | 4.89k   | 88.7k   |
| 3V to 32V | 12.7V    | 12V      | 4.7µF, 50V, 1206 | 10µF, 50V, 1210   | 22µF, 16V, 1206  | 3.32k   | 56.2k   |
| 3V to 29V | 15.8V    | 15V      | 4.7µF, 50V, 1206 | 4.7µF, 25V, 1210  | 22µF, 16V, 1206  | 2.67k   | 44.2k   |
| 3V to 26V | 18.8V    | 18V      | 4.7µF, 50V, 1206 | 4.7µF, 25V, 1210  | 22µF, 25V, 1206  | 2.26k   | 36.5k   |

Note: An input bulk capacitor is required.

## Isolation, Working Voltage and Safety Compliance

The LTM8068 isolation is 100% hi-pot tested by tying all of the primary pins together , all of the secondary pins together and subjecting the two resultant circuits to a high voltage differential for one second. This establishes the isolation voltage rating of the LTM8068 component.

The isolation rating of the LTM8068 is not the same as the working or operational voltage that the application will experience. This is subject to the application's power source, operating conditions, the industry where the end product is used and other factors that dictate design requirements such as the gap between copper planes, traces and component pins on the printed circuit board, as well as the type of connector that may be used. To maximize the allowable working voltage, the LTM8068 has two columns of solder balls removed to facilitate the printed circuit board design. The ball to ball pitch is 1.27mm, and the typical ball diameter is 0.75mm. Accounting for the missing columns and the ball diameter , the printed circuit board may be designed for a metal-to-metal separation of up to 3.06mm. This may have to be reduced somewhat to allow for tolerances in solder mask or other printed circuit board design rules. For those situations where information about the spacing of LTM8068 internal circuitry is required, the minimum metal to metal separation of the primary and secondary is 1mm.

To reiterate, the manufacturer's isolation voltage rating and the required working or operational voltage are often different numbers. In the case of the LTM8068, the isolation voltage rating is established by 100% hi-pot testing. The working or operational voltage is a function of the end product and its system level specifications. The actual required operational voltage is often smaller than the manufacturer's isolation rating.

The  LTM8068  is  a  UL  recognized  component  under UL 60950, file number E464570. The UL 60950 insulation category of the LTM8068 transformer is Functional. Considering UL 60950 Table 2N and the gap distances stated above, 3.06mm external and 1mm internal, the LTM8068 may be operated with up to 250V working voltage in a pollution degree 2 environment. The actual working voltage, insulation category, pollution degree and other critical parameters for the specific end application depend upon the actual environmental, application and safety compliance requirements. It is therefore up to the user to perform a safety and compliance review to ensure that the LTM8068 is suitable for the intended application.

## VOUT2  Post Regulator

VOUT2  is produced by a high performance low dropout 300mA regulator. At full load, its dropout is less than 430mV. Its output is set by applying a resistor from the RFB2  pin to GND; the value of R FB2  can be calculated by the following equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## VOUT2  Post Regulator Bypass Capacitance and Low Noise Performance

The V OUT2  linear regulator may be used with the addition of a 0.01μF bypass capacitor from V OUT  to the BYP pin to lower output voltage noise. A good quality low leakage capacitor , such as a X5R or X7R ceramic, is recommended. This capacitor will bypass the reference of the regulator , lowering the output voltage noise to as low as 20µV RMS . Using a bypass capacitor has the added benefit of improving transient response.

## Safety Rated Capacitors

Some applications require safety rated capacitors, which are high voltage capacitors that are specifically designed and rated for AC operation and high voltage surges. These capacitors are often certified to safety standards such as UL 60950, IEC 60950 and others. In the case of the LTM8068, a common application of a safety rated capacitor would be to connect it from GND to V OUTN . To provide maximum flexibility, the LTM8068 does not include any components between GND and V OUTN . Any safety capacitors must be added externally.

The specific capacitor and circuit configuration for any application  depends  upon  the  safety  requirements  of the system into which the LTM8068 is being designed. Table 3 provides a list of possible capacitors and their manufacturers. The application of a capacitor from GND to V OUTN  may also reduce the high frequency output noise on the output.

Table 3. Safety Rated Capacitors

| MANUFACTURER         | PART NUMBER            | DESCRIPTION                                   |
|----------------------|------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| Murata Electronics   | GA343DR7GD472KW01L     | 4700pF, 250V AC, X7R, 4.5mm × 3.2mm Capacitor |
| Johanson Dielectrics | 302R29W471KV3E-****-SC | 470pF, 250V AC, X7R, 4.5mm × 2mm Capacitor    |
| Syfer Technology     | 1808JA250102JCTSP      | 100pF, 250V AC, C0G, 1808 Capacitor           |

## PCB Layout

Most of the headaches associated with PCB layout have been alleviated or even eliminated by the high level of integration of the LTM8068. The LTM8068 is nevertheless a switching power supply, and care must be taken to minimize electrical noise to ensure proper operation. Even with the high level of integration, you may fail to achieve specified operation with a haphazard or poor layout. See Figure 1 for a suggested layout. Ensure that the grounding and heat sinking are acceptable.

A few rules to keep in mind are:

1. Place the R FB1  and R FB2  resistors as close as possible to their respective pins.
2. Place the C IN capacitor as close as possible to the V IN and GND connections of the LTM8068.
3. Place the C OUT1  capacitor as close as possible to V OUT1 and V OUTN . Likewise, place the C OUT2  capacitor as close as possible to V OUT2  and V OUTN .
4. Place  the  C IN and  C OUT   capacitors  such  that  their ground current flow directly adjacent or underneath the LTM8068.

<!-- image -->

8068 F01

Figure 1. Layout Showing Suggested External Components, Planes and Thermal Vias

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

5. Connect all of the GND connections to as large a copper pour or plane area as possible on the top layer . Avoid breaking the ground connection between the external components and the LTM8068.
6. Use vias to connect the GND copper area to the board's internal ground planes. Liberally distribute these GND vias to provide both a good ground connection and thermal path to the internal planes of the printed circuit board. Pay attention to the location and density of the thermal vias in Figure 1. The LTM8068 can benefit from the heat sinking afforded by vias that connect to internal GND planes at these locations, due to their proximity to internal power handling components. The optimum number of thermal vias depends upon the printed circuit board design. For example, a board might use very small via holes. It should employ more thermal vias than a board that uses larger holes.

## Minimum Load

Due to the nature of the flyback regulator in general, and the LTM8068 control scheme specifically, the LTM8068 requires a minimum load for proper operation. Otherwise, the output may go out of regulation if the load is too light. The most common way to address this is to place a resistor across the output. The Minimum Load Current vs V OUT  Over Full Output Voltage Range graph in the Typical Performance Characteristics section of may be used as a guide in selecting the resistor . Note that this graph describes room temperature operation. If the end application operates at a colder temperature, the minimum load requirement may be higher and the minimum load  condition  must  be  characterized  for  the  lowest operating temperature.

If it is impractical to place a resistive load permanently across the output, a resistor and a Zener diode may be used instead, as shown in Figure 2. While the minimum load resistor mentioned in the prior paragraph will always draw current while the LTM8068 output is powered, the series resistor-Zener diode combination will only draw current if the output is too high. When using this circuit, take care to ensure that the characteristics of the Zener diode are appropriate for the intended application's temperature range.

Figure 2. Use a Resistor and Zener Diode to Meet the Minimum Load Requirement

<!-- image -->

## Hot-Plugging Safely

The small size, robustness and low impedance of ceramic capacitors make them an attractive option for the input bypass capacitor of the LTM8068. However , these capacitors can cause problems if the LTM8068 is plugged into a live supply (see the Analog Devices Application Note 88 for a complete discussion). The low loss ceramic capacitor combined with stray inductance in series with the power source forms an underdamped tank circuit, and the voltage at the V IN  pin of the LTM8068 can ring to more than twice the nominal input voltage, possibly exceeding the LTM8068's rating and damaging the part. If the input supply is poorly controlled or the user will be plugging the LTM8068 into an energized supply, the input network should be designed to prevent this overshoot. This can be accomplished by installing a small resistor in series to V IN , but the most popular method of controlling input voltage overshoot is adding an electrolytic bulk capacitor to the VIN  net. This capacitor's relatively high equivalent series resistance damps the circuit and eliminates the voltage overshoot. The extra capacitor improves low frequency ripple filtering and can slightly improve the efficiency of the circuit, though it can be a large component in the circuit.

## Thermal Considerations

The LTM8068 output current may need to be derated if it is required to operate in a high ambient temperature. The amount of current derating is dependent upon the input voltage, output power and ambient temperature. The temperature rise curves given in the Typical Performance Characteristics section can be used as a guide. These curves  were  generated  by  the  LTM8068  mounted  to a  58cm 2 4-layer  FR4  printed  circuit  board.  Boards  of other sizes and layer count can exhibit different thermal

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

behavior , so it is incumbent upon the user to verify proper operation over the intended system's line, load and environmental operating conditions.

For increased accuracy and fidelity to the actual application, many designers use FEA to predict thermal performance. To that end, the Pin Configuration section typically gives four thermal coefficients:

θ JA : Thermal resistance from junction to ambient

θ JCbottom : Thermal resistance from junction to the bottom of the product case

θ JCtop : Thermal resistance from junction to top of the product case

θ JCboard :  Thermal  resistance  from  junction  to  the printed circuit board.

While the meaning of each of these coefficients may seem to be intuitive, JEDEC has defined each to avoid confusion and inconsistency. These definitions are given in JESD 51-12, and are quoted or paraphrased as follows:

1. θ JA   is  the  natural  convection  junction-to-ambient  air  thermal  resistance  measured  in  a  one cubic  foot  sealed  enclosure.  This  environment is  sometimes  referred  to  as  still  air  although natural  convection  causes  the  air  to  move.  This value  is  determined  with  the  part  mounted  to  a JESD 51-9 defined test board, which does not reflect an actual application or viable operating condition.
2. θ JCbottom  is the junction-to-board thermal resistance with all of the component power dissipation flowing through the bottom of the package. In the typical µModule converter , the bulk of the heat flows out the bottom of the package, but there is always heat flow out into the ambient environment. As a result, this thermal resistance value may be useful for comparing packages but the test conditions don't generally match the user's application.
3. θ JCtop  is determined with nearly all of the component power dissipation flowing through the top of the package. As the electrical connections of the typical µModule converter are on the bottom of the package,

it is rare for an application to operate such that most of the heat flows from the junction to the top of the part. As in the case of θ JCbottom , this value may be useful for comparing packages but the test conditions don't generally match the user's application.

4. θ JCboard  is the junction-to-board thermal resistance where almost all of the heat flows through the bottom of the µModule converter and into the board, and is really the sum of the θ JCbottom  and the thermal resistance of the bottom of the part through the solder joints and through a portion of the board. The board temperature is measured a specified distance from the package, using a two-sided, two-layer board. This board is described in JESD 51-9.

Given these definitions, it should now be apparent that none of these thermal coefficients reflects an actual physical operating condition of a µModule converter . Thus, none of them can be individually used to accurately predict the thermal performance of the product. Likewise, it would be inappropriate to attempt to use any one coefficient to correlate to the junction temperature vs load graphs given in the product's data sheet. The only appropriate way to use the coefficients is when running a detailed thermal analysis, such as FEA, which considers all of the thermal resistances simultaneously.

A graphical representation of these thermal resistances is given in Figure 3.

The blue resistances are contained within the µModule converter , and the green are outside.

The die temperature of the LTM8068 must be lower than the maximum rating of 125°C, so care should be taken in the layout of the circuit to ensure good heat sinking of the LTM8068. The bulk of the heat flow out of the LTM8068 is through the bottom of the module and the BGA pads into the printed circuit board. Consequently a poor printed circuit board design can cause excessive heating, resulting in impaired performance or reliability. See the PCB Layout in the Applications Information section for the printed circuit board design suggestions.

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

Figure 3. Approximate Thermal Model of LTM8068

<!-- image -->

## TYPICAL APPLICATIONS

## 3.3V Flyback Converter

<!-- image -->

## 12V Flyback Converter with Low Noise Bypass

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

8068 TA02b

VOUT2  Maximum Load Current vs V IN

<!-- image -->

8068 TA03b

Rev. D

## PACKAGE DESCRIPTION

## Pin Assignment Table (Arranged by Pin Number)

| PIN   | FUNCTION   | PIN   | FUNCTION   | PIN   | FUNCTION   | PIN   | FUNCTION   | PIN   | FUNCTION   | PIN   | FUNCTION   | PIN   | FUNCTION   | PIN   | FUNCTION   |
|-------|------------|-------|------------|-------|------------|-------|------------|-------|------------|-------|------------|-------|------------|-------|------------|
| A1    | V OUT2     | B1    | V OUT2     | C1    | -          | D1    | -          | E1    | GND        | F1    | -          | G1    | V IN       | H1    | V IN       |
| A2    | FB2        | B2    | BYP        | C2    | -          | D2    | -          | E2    | GND        | F2    | -          | G2    | V IN       | H2    | V IN       |
| A3    | V OUTN     | B3    | V OUTN     | C3    | -          | D3    | -          | E3    | GND        | F3    | RUN        | G3    | -          | H3    | -          |
| A4    | V OUTN     | B4    | V OUTN     | C4    | -          | D4    | -          | E4    | GND        | F4    | GND        | G4    | GND        | H4    | GND        |
| A5    | V OUTN     | B5    | V OUTN     | C5    | -          | D5    | -          | E5    | GND        | F5    | GND        | G5    | GND        | H5    | GND        |
| A6    | V OUT1     | B6    | V OUT1     | C6    | -          | D6    | -          | E6    | GND        | F6    | GND        | G6    | GND        | H6    | GND        |
| A7    | V OUT1     | B7    | V OUT1     | C7    | -          | D7    | -          | E7    | GND        | F7    | GND        | G7    | FB1        | H7    | GND        |

## PACKAGE PHOTOS Part marking is either ink mark or laser mark

<!-- image -->

## PACKAGE DESCRIPTION

BGA Package

<!-- image -->

## REVISION HISTORY

| REV   | DATE   | DESCRIPTION                                                                                                      | PAGE NUMBER              |
|-------|--------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------|
| A     | 05/16  | Corrected symbol of internal switch on Block Diagram from NPN transistor to N-channel MOSFET.                    | 9                        |
| B     | 07/17  | Added Minimum Load section.                                                                                      | 14                       |
| C     | 11/20  | Minimum V IN changed from 2.8V to 3V.                                                                            | 1, 3, 10, 11, 12, 16, 20 |
|       |        | Updated derating graph.                                                                                          | 6, 7                     |
|       |        | Updated text about operating frequency.                                                                          | 10                       |
|       |        | Corrected BGA ball diameter and separation distance in Isolation, Working Voltage and Safety Compliance section. | 12                       |
| D     | 11/25  | Fixed major document formatting issues (updated document template, package photos, and cross references).        | All                      |
|       |        | Changed lead to pin in the Pin Configuration.                                                                    | 2                        |
|       |        | Added parametric shifts information in the Pin Functions section.                                                | 8                        |
|       |        | Added ink marking statement to package photos.                                                                   | 17                       |

## TYPICAL APPLICATION

## 3.3V, 2.5V Dual Output Converter with Low Noise Bypass

## Maximum Load Current vs V IN

<!-- image -->

## DESIGN RESOURCES

| RESOURCES                                  | DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|--------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| µModule Design, Manufacturing and Assembly | Design • Evaluation Board and Gerber Files • Free Design Tools, Including LTspice ® , and LTpowerCAD ® • Circuit Simulations Manufacturing • Quick Start Guides • PCB Design, Assembly and Manufacturing Guidelines • Package and Board Level Reliability                       |
| µModule Regulator Products Search          | 1. Sort table of products by parameters and download the result as a spread sheet. 2. Search using the Quick Power Search parametric table. Quick Search Input Output Features V in (Min) V in (Max) V out I out V V V A Internal Heat Sink Ultrathin Low EMI                   |
| Digital Power System Management            | The Analog Devices family of digital power supply management ICs are highly integrated solutions that offer essential functions, including power supply monitoring, supervision, margining and sequencing and feature EEPROM for storing user configurations and fault logging. |

## RELATED PARTS

| Part Number   | Description                                                       | Comments                                                                   |
|---------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| LTM8067       | 2kVAC Isolated µModule Converter                                  | 3V ≤ V IN ≤ 40V, 2.5V ≤ V OUT ≤ 24V, UL60950 Recognized                    |
| LTM8047       | 725VDC, 1.5W Isolated µModule Converter                           | 3.1V ≤ V IN ≤ 32V, 2.5V ≤ V OUT ≤ 12V                                      |
| LTM8048       | 725VDC, 1.5W Isolated µModule Converter with LDO Post Regulator   | 3.1V ≤ V IN ≤ 32V, 1.2V ≤ V OUT ≤ 12V; 20µV RMS Output Ripple              |
| LTM8045       | Inverting or SEPIC µModule DC/DC Converter                        | 2.8V ≤ V IN ≤ 18V, 2.5V ≤ V OUT ≤ 15V or -2.5V ≤ V OUT ≤ -15V, Up to 700mA |
| LT ® 8300     | Isolated Flyback Converter with 100V IN , 150V/260mA Power Switch | 6V ≤ V IN ≤ 100V, No Opt-Isolator Required                                 |
| LT8301        | Isolated Flyback Converter with 65V/1.2A Power Switch             | 2.7V ≤ V IN ≤ 42V, No Opt-Isolator Required                                |
| LT8302        | Isolated Flyback Converter with 65V/3.6A Power Switch             | 3V ≤ V IN ≤ 42V, No Opt-Isolator Required                                  |

<!-- image -->

1

<!-- image -->

For more information www.analog.com