<!-- lastmod 2023-06-15 -->
<!-- image -->

## FEATURES

- n Complete Step-Down Switch Mode Power Supply
- n Wide Input Voltage Range: 4V to 36V
- n 1.25V to 5V Output Voltage
- n EN55022 Class B Compliant
- n 200mA Output Current
- n Current Mode Control
- n -55°C to 125°C Operating Temperature (LTM8020MPV)
- n Pb-Free (e4) RoHS Compliant Package with Gold Pad Finish
- n Tiny, Low Profile (6.25mm × 6.25mm × 2.32mm) Surface Mount LGA Package

## APPLICATIONS

- n Automotive Battery Regulation
- n Power for Portable Products
- n Distributed Supply Regulation
- n Industrial Supplies
- n Wall T ransformer Regulation

## TYPICAL APPLICATION

6.5V IN  to 36V IN , 5V at 200mA DC/DC µModule ® Regulator

<!-- image -->

## 200mA, 36V DC/DC µModule Regulator

## DESCRIPTION

The LTM ® 8020 is a complete 200mA, DC/DC step-down power supply. Included in the package are the switching controller , power switches, inductor , and all support components. Operating over an input voltage range of 4V to 36V, the LTM8020 supports an output voltage range of 1.25V to 5V, set by a single resistor . Only bulk capacitors are needed to finish the design. The LTM8020 meets the radiated emissions requirements of EN55022. Conducted emission requirements can be met by adding standard filter components.

The low profile (2.32mm) tiny package enables utilization of unused space on the bottom of PC boards for high density point of load regulation.

The LTM8020 is packaged in a thermally enhanced, compact (6.25mm × 6.25mm) and low profile (2.32mm) overmolded land grid array (LGA) package suitable for automated assembly by standard surface mount equipment. The LTM8020 is Pb-free and RoHS compliant.

All registered trademarks and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

## Efficiency and Power Loss vs Load Current

<!-- image -->

## ABSOLUTE MAXIMUM RATINGS

## (Note 1)

| V IN , SHDN Voltage ....................................................40V    |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ADJ Voltage ................................................................5V |
| BIAS Voltage.............................................................25V   |
| V IN + BIAS Voltage....................................................47V     |
| V OUT Voltage.............................................................10V  |
| Internal Operating Temperature Range... -40°C to 125°C                         |
| Storage Temperature Range .................. -55°C to 125°C                    |
| Maximum Solder Temperature..............................260°C                  |

## ORDER INFORMATION

|                |                    | PART MARKING*   | PART MARKING*   | PACKAGE TYPE   | MSL RATING   | TEMPERATURE RANGE (SEE NOTE 2)   |
|----------------|--------------------|-----------------|-----------------|----------------|--------------|----------------------------------|
| PART NUMBER    | PAD OR BALL FINISH | DEVICE          | FINISH CODE     |                |              |                                  |
| LTM8020EV#PBF  | Au (RoHS)          | LTM8020V        | TBD             | LGA            | TBD          | -40°C to 85°C                    |
| LTM8020IV#PBF  | Au (RoHS)          | LTM8020V        | TBD             | LGA            | TBD          | -40°C to 85°C                    |
| LTM8020MPV#PBF | Au (RoHS)          | LTM8020MPV      | TBD             | LGA            | TBD          | -55°C to 125°C                   |

-  Recommended LGA and BGA PCB Assembly and Manufacturing Procedures
-  LGA and BGA Package and Tray Drawings

ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS The l denotes the specifications which apply over the full operating = 10V, V BIAS  = 3V, External C IN  = 2.2µF, C OUT  = 4.7µF.

<!-- image -->

temperature range, otherwise specifications are at T A  = 25°C. V IN  = 10V, V SHDN (Note 2)

| SYMBOL        | PARAMETER                    | CONDITIONS                                                               |    | MIN   | TYP   | MAX        | UNITS    |
|---------------|------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|----|-------|-------|------------|----------|
| V IN          | Input DC Voltage             |                                                                          | l  | 4     |       | 36         | V        |
| V OUT         | Output DC Voltage            | 0 < I OUT ≤ 200mA; 167kΩ < R ADJ < ∞                                     |    | 1.2   |       | 5          | V        |
| R ADJ(MIN)    | Minimum Allowable R ADJ      | (Note 3)                                                                 |    | 163   |       |            | kΩ       |
| I LK          | Leakage from IN to OUT       | V SHDN = 0V, BIAS = 0V                                                   |    |       | 1.2   | 6          | µA       |
| I OUT         | Continuous Output DC Current | 5.5V ≤ V IN ≤ 36V, R ADJ = 301k, V O = 3.3V                              |    | 0     |       | 200        | mA       |
| I Q(VIN)      | Quiescent Current into IN    | SHDN = 0.2V, BIAS Open BIAS = 3V, Not Switching BIAS = 0V, Not Switching | l  |       | 10 35 | 1 18 50    | µA µA µA |
| I Q(BIAS)     | Quiescent Current into BIAS  | SHDN = 0.2V, BIAS = 0V BIAS = 3V, Not Switching BIAS = 0V, Not Switching | l  |       | 25    | 0.5 60 1.5 | µA µA µA |
| ∆V OUT /V OUT | Line Regulation              | 5V ≤ V IN ≤ 36V, I OUT = 200mA, R ADJ Open                               |    |       | 1     |            | %        |
| ∆V OUT /V OUT | Load Regulation              | V IN = 24V, 0 ≤ I OUT ≤ 200mA, V OUT = 3.3V                              |    |       | 2     |            | %        |

## PIN CONFIGURATION

<!-- image -->

ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS The l denotes the specifications which apply over the full operating = 10V, V BIAS  = 3V, External C IN  = 2.2µF, C OUT  = 4.7µF.

temperature range, otherwise specifications are at T A  = 25°C. V IN  = 10V,  V SHDN (Note 2)

| SYMBOL        | PARAMETER                                 | CONDITIONS                              |    | MIN   | TYP   | MAX   | UNITS   |
|---------------|-------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|----|-------|-------|-------|---------|
| V OUT(AC_RMS) | Output Ripple (RMS)                       | I OUT = 100mA, V OUT = 3.3V, V IN = 24V |    |       | 7.5   |       | mV      |
| f SW          | Switching Frequency                       | I OUT = 200mA                           |    |       | 450   |       | kHz     |
| I SC          | Output Short-Circuit Current              | V IN = 36V, V OUT = 0V                  |    |       | 350   |       | mA      |
| V ADJ         | Voltage at ADJ Pin                        |                                         | l  | 1.228 |       | 1.265 | V       |
| V BIAS(MIN)   | Minimum BIAS Voltage for Proper Operation |                                         | l  | 3     |       |       | V       |
| I ADJ         | Current Out of ADJ Pin                    | ADJ = 0V, V OUT = 5V, V SHDN = 0V       | l  | 9.65  |       | 10.35 | µA      |
| I SHDN        | SHDN Pin Current                          | V SHDN = 2.5V                           |    |       | 1     | 5     | µA      |
| V IH( SHDN )  | SHDN Input High Voltage                   |                                         |    | 2.5   |       |       | V       |
| V IL( SHDN )  | SHDN Input Low Voltage                    |                                         |    |       |       | 0.2   | V       |

Note 1: Stresses beyond those listed under Absolute Maximum Ratings may cause permanent damage to the device. Exposure to any Absolute Maximum Rating condition for extended periods may affect device reliability and lifetime.

Note 2: The LTM8020E is guaranteed to meet performance specifications from 0°C to 85°C ambient. Specifications over the full -40°C to 85°C ambient operating temperature range are assured by design, characterization and correlation with statistical process controls. The

LTM8020I is guaranteed to meet specifications over the full -40°C to 85°C ambient operating temperature range. The LTM8020MP is guaranteed to meet specifications over the full -55°C to 125°C internal operating temperature range. Note that the maximum internal temperature is determined by specific operating conditions in conjunction with board layout, the rated package thermal resistance and other environmental factors.

Note 3: Guaranteed by design.

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS T A  = 25°C unless otherwise noted.

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

8020 G02

<!-- image -->

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS

<!-- image -->

8020 G04

Input Current vs Output Current (24V IN )

<!-- image -->

4356 G07

Input Current vs Input Voltage (Output Short)

<!-- image -->

4356 G10

T A  = 25°C unless otherwise noted.

Input Current vs Output Current (12V IN )

<!-- image -->

4356 G05

Input Current vs Output Current (36V IN )

<!-- image -->

4356 G08

Minimum Required Input Voltage vs Load (V OUT  = 3.3V, T A  = -55°C)

5

.

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

4356 G06

Input Quiescent Current vs Input Voltage

<!-- image -->

Minimum Required Input Voltage vs Load (V OUT  = 3.3V, T A  = -40°C)

5

.

<!-- image -->

4

.

5

8020 G1

4

.

5

8020 G12

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS

<!-- image -->

8020 G13

Minimum Required Input Voltage vs Load (V OUT  = 5V, T A  = 25°C)

7

.

5

<!-- image -->

## T A  = 25°C unless otherwise noted.

Minimum Required Input Voltage vs Load (V OUT  = 5V, T A  = -55°C) vs Load (V OUT = 5V , T A  = -5°C)

Minimum Required Input Voltage vs Load (V OUT  = 5V, T A  = -40°C)

<!-- image -->

8020 G14

Minimum Required Input Voltage vs Output Voltage

<!-- image -->

8020 G15

Temperature Rise vs Input Voltage (Full Load, T A  = 25°C)

<!-- image -->

8020 G16

Turn-On Behavior (6V IN , 3.3V OUT , No Load)

<!-- image -->

4356 G17

<!-- image -->

Radiated Emissions

<!-- image -->

8020 G18

7

.

5

4

.

5

5

.

4

.

5

5

.

4

.

5

5

.

7

.

5

4

.

5

5

.

## PIN FUNCTIONS

VIN  (Pins A1, A2): The V IN   pins supply current to the LTM8020's internal regulator and to the internal power switch. These pins must be locally bypassed with an external, low ESR capacitor of at least 1µF.

VOUT  (Pins A4, A5, B4, B5, C4, C5): Power Output Pins. An external capacitor is connected from V OUT  to GND in most applications. Apply output load between these pins and GND.

BIAS (Pin C3): The BIAS pin connects to the internal boost Schottky diode and to the internal regulator . Tie to VOUT  when V OUT  &gt; 3V or to another DC voltage greater than 3V otherwise. When BIAS &gt; 3V the internal circuitry will be powered from this pin to improve efficiency. Main regulator power will still come from V IN .

SHDN (Pin C1): The SHDN pin is used to put the LTM8020 in  shutdown  mode.  Tie  to  ground  to  shut  down  the LTM8020. Apply 2V or more for normal operation. If the shutdown feature is not used, tie this pin to V IN .

GND (Pins C2, D1, D2, D3, D4, D5, E2, E3, E4, E5): The GND connections serve as the main signal return and the primary heat sink for the LTM8020. Tie the GND pins to a local ground plane below the LTM8020 and the circuit components. Return the feedback divider to this signal.

ADJ (Pin E1): The LTM8020 regulates its ADJ pin to 1.25V. Connect the adjust resistor from this pin to GND. The value of this adjust resistor is determined by the equation RADJ  = 623.75/(V OUT  - 1.25), where R ADJ  is in kΩ. Note that the ADJ pin is open circuit if V OUT  = 1.25V.

## BLOCK DIAGRAM

<!-- image -->

## OPERATION

The LTM8020 is a standalone nonisolated step-down switching DC/DC power supply. It can deliver up to 200mA of DC output current with only bulk external input and output capacitors. This module provides a precisely regulated output voltage programmable via one external resistor from 1.25VDC to 5VDC. The input voltage range is 4V to 36V. Given that the LTM8020 is a step-down converter , make sure that the input voltage is high enough to support the desired output voltage and load current. See Block Diagram

The LTM8020 contains a current mode controller , power switching element, power inductor , power Schottky diode and a modest amount of input and output capacitance. For some applications, as shown in Table 1, no output capacitor is necessary.

With its high performance current mode controller and internal feedback loop compensation, the LTM8020 module has sufficient stability margin and good transient performance under a wide range of operating conditions with a wide range of output capacitors, even all ceramic ones (X5R or X7R). Current mode control provides cycle-bycycle fast current limit, and automatic current limiting protects the module in the event of a short circuit or overload fault.

<!-- image -->

The LTM8020 is built upon a variable frequency controller .  The on time, off time and switching frequency are dependent upon the input voltage, output voltage and load current.

The drive circuit for the internal power switching element is powered through the BIAS pin. Power this pin with at least 3V.

The LTM8020 is equipped with two operating modes, dependant upon the load current. When the load current is sufficiently high, the LTM8020 will switch continuously (see Figure 1a). If the load is very light, or if the input voltage is high relative to the output voltage, the part will operate in Burst Mode ®  operation, alternating between its micropower and switching states to keep the output in regulation and hold the power dissipation to a minimum (See Figure 1b).

If the SHDN pin is grounded, all internal circuits are turned off and V IN  current reduces to the device leakage current, typically a few nanoamps.

Figure 1. Output Voltage and Internal Inductor Current

<!-- image -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

For most applications, the design process is straight forward, summarized as follows:

1. Look at Table 1 and find the row that has the desired input range and output voltage.
2. Apply the C IN , C OUT , R ADJ  and BIAS connection indicated on that row.

While these component combinations have been tested for proper operation, it is incumbent upon the user to verify proper operation over the intended system's line, load and environmental conditions.

If an output voltage other than those listed in Table 1 is desired, use the equation R ADJ  = 623.75/(V OUT  - 1.25), where R ADJ  is in kΩ. As a starting point, use values for CIN  and C OUT  that correspond to the input voltage and output voltage that most closely matches the intended application, and verify proper operation over the system's line, load and environmental conditions.

## Capacitor Selection Considerations

The C IN and C OUT  capacitor values in Table 1 are the minimum recommended values for the associated operating conditions. Applying capacitor values below those indicated in Table 1 is not recommended, and may result in undesirable operation. An input system bulk capacitor is assumed. Using larger values is generally acceptable, and can yield improved dynamic response, if it is necessary. Again, it is incumbent upon the user to verify proper operation over the intended system's line, load and environmental conditions.

Ceramic capacitors are small, robust and have very low ESR. However , not all ceramic capacitors are suitable. X5R and X7R types are stable over temperature and applied voltage and give dependable service. Other types, including Y5V and Z5U have very large temperature and voltage coefficients of capacitance. In an application circuit they may have only a small fraction of their nominal capacitance resulting in much higher output voltage ripple than expected.

Ceramic capacitors are also piezoelectric. The LTM8020's switching frequency depends on the load current, and at light loads it can excite a ceramic capacitor at audio frequencies, generating audible noise. Since the LTM8020 operates at a lower current limit during Burst Mode operation, the noise is typically very quiet to a casual ear .

If  this  audible  noise  is  unacceptable,  use  a  high  performance electrolytic capacitor at the output. The input capacitor can be a parallel combination of a 2.2µF ceramic capacitor and a low cost electrolytic capacitor .

A final precaution regarding ceramic capacitors concerns the maximum input voltage rating of the LTM8020. A ceramic input capacitor combined with trace or cable inductance forms a high Q (under damped) tank circuit. If the LTM8020 circuit is plugged into a live supply, the input voltage can ring to twice its nominal value, possibly exceeding the device's rating. This situation is easily avoided; see the Hot-Plugging Safely section.

## Shorted Input Protection

Care needs to be taken in systems where the output will be held high when the input to the LTM8020 is absent. This may occur in battery charging applications or in battery backup systems where a battery or some other supply is diode ORed with the LTM8020's output. If the V IN  pin is allowed to float and the SHDN pin is held high (either by a logic signal or because it is tied to V IN ), then the LTM8020's internal circuitry will pull its quiescent current from its output. This is fine if your system can tolerate a few milliamps in this state. If you ground the SHDN pin, this quiescent current will drop to essentially zero. However, if the V IN pin is grounded while the output is held high, then parasitic diodes inside the LTM8020 can pull large currents from the output through the internal power switch, possibly damaging the device. Figure 2 shows a circuit that will run only when the input voltage is present and that protects against a shorted or reversed input.

Figure 2. Diode D1 Prevents a Shorted Input from Discharging a Backup Battery Tied to the Output, as Well as Protecting the LTM8020 from a Reversed Input

<!-- image -->

Rev. F

<!-- image -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## PCB Layout

Most of the headaches associated with PCB layout have been alleviated or even eliminated by the high level of integration of the LTM8020. The LTM8020 is never-theless a switching power supply, and care must be taken to minimize EMI and ensure proper operation. Even with the high level of integration, you may fail to achieve specified operation with a haphazard or poor layout. See Figure 3 for a suggested layout.

Ensure that the grounding and heat sinking are acceptable. A few rules to keep in mind are:

1. Place the C IN capacitor as close as possible to the V IN and GND connection of the LTM8020.
2. Place the C OUT  capacitor as close as possible to the VOUT  and GND connection of the LTM8020.
3. Place  the  C IN and  C OUT   capacitors  such  that  their ground current flows directly adjacent or underneath the LTM8020.
4. Connect all of the GND connections to as large a copper pour or plane area as possible on the top layer . Avoid breaking the ground connection between the external components and the LTM8020.
5. The copper pours also serve as the heat sink for the LTM8020. Place several vias in the GND plane to act as heat pipes to other layers of the printed circuit board.

Figure 3. Layout Showing Suggested External Components, GND Plane and Thermal Vias

<!-- image -->

## Positive-to-Negative Voltage Regulation

The LTM8020 can generate a negative output by tying the V OUT  pads to system ground and connecting GND as shown in the Typical Application section. In this configuration, SHDN must be level shifted or referenced to GND, and the available output current may be reduced.

## Hot-Plugging Safely

The small size, robustness and low impedance of ceramic capacitors make them an attractive option for the input bypass capacitor of LTM8020. However , these capacitors can cause problems if the LTM8020 is plugged into a live supply (see Analog Devices Application Note 88 for a complete discussion). The low loss ceramic capacitor combined with stray inductance in series with the power source forms an under damped tank circuit, and the voltage at the V IN  pin of the LTM8020 can ring to twice the nominal input voltage, possibly exceeding the LTM8020's rating and damaging the part. If the input supply is poorly controlled or the user will be plugging the LTM8020 into an energized supply, the input network should be designed to prevent this overshoot. Figure 4 shows the waveforms that result when an LTM8020 circuit is connected to a 24V supply through six feet of 24-gauge twisted pair . The first plot is the response with a 2.2µF ceramic capacitor at the input. The input voltage rings as high as 35V and the input current peaks at 20A. One method of damping the tank circuit is to add another capacitor with a series resistor to the circuit. In Figure 4b an aluminum electrolytic capacitor has been added. This capacitor's high equivalent series resistance damps the circuit and eliminates the voltage overshoot. The extra capacitor improves low frequency ripple filtering and can slightly improve the efficiency of the circuit, though it is likely to be the largest component in the circuit. An alternative solution is shown in Figure 4c. A 1Ω resistor is added in series with the input to eliminate the voltage overshoot (it also reduces the peak input current). A 0.1µF capacitor improves high frequency filtering. This solution is smaller and less expensive than the electrolytic capacitor . For high input voltages its impact on efficiency is minor , reducing efficiency less than one-half percent for a 5V output at full load operating from 24V.

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## High Temperature Considerations

The die temperature of the LTM8020 must be lower than the maximum rating of 125°C, so care should be taken in the layout of the circuit to ensure good heat sinking of the LTM8020. To estimate the junction temperature, approximate the power dissipation within the LTM8020 by applying the typical efficiency stated in this data sheet to the desired output power , or , if you have an actual module, by taking a power measurement. Then calculate the internal temperature rise of the LTM8020 above the surface of the printed circuit board by multiplying the module's power dissipation by the thermal resistance. The actual thermal resistance of the LTM8020 to the printed circuit board depends upon the layout of the circuit board, but the thermal resistance given in the Pin Configuration, which is based upon a 25cm 2  4-layer FR4 PC board, and the Typical Performance Characteristics can be used a guide.

Finally, be aware that at high ambient temperatures the internal Schottky diode will have significant leakage current increasing the quiescent current of the LTM8020.

## BIAS Pin Considerations

The BIAS pin is used to provide drive power for the internal power switching stage and operate internal circuitry. For proper operation, it must be powered by at least 3V. If the output voltage is programmed to be 3V or higher , simply tie BIAS to V OUT . If V OUT  is less than 3V, BIAS can be tied to V IN  or some other voltage source. In all cases, ensure that the maximum voltage at the BIAS pin is both less than 25V and the sum of V IN  and BIAS is less than 47V. If BIAS power is applied from a remote or noisy voltage source, it may be necessary to apply a decoupling capacitor locally to the LTM8020.

Figure 4. A Well Chosen Input Network Prevents Input Voltage Overshoot and Ensures Reliable Operation When the LTM8020 is Connected to a Live Supply

<!-- image -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## Minimum Input Voltage

The LTM8020 is a step-down converter , so a minimum amount of headroom is required to keep the output in regulation. For most applications at full load, the input needs to be at least 1.5V above the desired output at room temperature. This headroom may increase over the full operating temperature range. In addition, the input voltage required to turn on depends upon how the SHDN pin is tied. It takes more input voltage to turn on if SHDN is tied to V IN  than if the turn-on is controlled by raising SHDN when V IN  is in the required operating range. For a typical part at room temperature, a sample graph of the input voltage required to turn on the LTM8020 when SHDN is tied to V IN  or when SHDN is toggled high is given in the Typical Performance Characteristics section.

## Electromagnetic Compliance

The LTM8020 was evaluated by an independent nationally recognized  test  lab  and  found  to  be  compliant  with EN55022 class B: 2006 by a wide margin. A sample graph of the LTM8020's radiated EMC performance is given in the Typical Performance Characteristics section, while further data, operating conditions and test setup are detailed in the electromagnetic compatibility test report, available here. Conducted emissions requirements may be met by adding an appropriate input power line filter . The proper implementation of this filter depends upon the system operating and performance conditions as a whole, of which the LTM8020 is typically only a component, so conducted emissions are not addressed at this level.

Note:

To RUN = Minimum V IN  required to maintain output regulation after meeting the TO START requirement. VIN  is lowered after output is in regulation.

To START = Minimum V IN  required to cause the part to overcome the headroom and regulate the output voltage. SHDN pin remains high prior to applying V IN .

SHDN CONTROLLED = With V IN  applied, minimum V IN required to cause the part to overcome the headroom and regulate the output voltage when the SHDN pin is toggled high.

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

Table 1. Recommended External Component Values and Configuration, T A  = 25°C

| V IN RANGE   | V OUT   | C IN               | C OUT              | R ADJ   | BIAS CONNECTION   |
|--------------|---------|--------------------|--------------------|---------|-------------------|
| 4.5V - 36V   | 1.25V   | 2.2µF 50V 1206 X7R | 47µF 6.3V 1206 X5R | Open    | >2V, < 25V        |
| 4.5V - 36V   | 1.5V    | 2.2µF 50V 1206 X7R | 47µF 6.3V 1206 X5R | 2.43M   | >2V, < 25V        |
| 4.5V - 36V   | 1.8V    | 2.2µF 50V 1206 X7R | 47µF 6.3V 1206 X5R | 1.1M    | >2V, < 25V        |
| 4.5V - 36V   | 2.5V    | 2.2µF 50V 1206 X7R | 22µF 6.3V 1206 X7R | 499k    | V OUT             |
| 4.5V - 36V   | 3.3V    | 2.2µF 50V 1206 X7R | 10µF 6.3V 1206 X7R | 301k    | V OUT             |
| 6.5V - 36V   | 5V      | 2.2µF 50V 1206 X7R | 10µF 6.3V 1206 X7R | 165k    | V OUT             |
| 4.5V - 15V   | 1.25V   | 2.2µF 16V 0805 X7R | 22µF 6.3V 1206 X7R | Open    | V IN              |
| 4.5V - 15V   | 1.5V    | 2.2µF 16V 0805 X7R | 10µF 6.3V 0805 X7R | 2.43M   | V IN              |
| 4.5V - 15V   | 1.8V    | 2.2µF 16V 0805 X7R | 10µF 6.3V 0805 X7R | 1.1M    | V IN              |
| 4.5V - 15V   | 2.5V    | 2.2µF 16V 0805 X7R | 10µF 6.3V 0805 X7R | 499k    | V IN              |
| 4.5V - 15V   | 3.3V    | 2.2µF 16V 0805 X7R | 10µF 6.3V 0805 X7R | 301k    | V OUT             |
| 6.5V - 15V   | 5V      | 2.2µF 16V 0805 X7R | None               | 165k    | V OUT             |
| 9V - 24V     | 1.25V   | 1µF 25V 0805 X7R   | 47µF 6.3V 0805 X5R | Open    | V IN              |
| 9V - 24V     | 1.5V    | 1µF 25V 0805 X7R   | 47µF 6.3V 0805 X7R | 2.43M   | V IN              |
| 9V - 24V     | 1.8V    | 1µF 25V 0805 X7R   | 10µF 6.3V 0805 X7R | 1.1M    | V IN              |
| 9V - 24V     | 2.5V    | 1µF 25V 0805 X7R   | 10µF 6.3V 0805 X7R | 499k    | V IN              |
| 9V - 24V     | 3.3V    | 1µF 25V 0805 X7R   | 10µF 6.3V 0805 X7R | 301k    | V OUT             |
| 9V - 24V     | 5V      | 4.7µF 25V 0805 X7R | 10µF 6.3V 0805 X5R | 165k    | V OUT             |
| 18V - 36V    | 1.25V   | 2.2µF 50V 1206 X7R | 47µF 6.3V 1206 X5R | Open    | >2V, <25V         |
| 18V - 36V    | 1.5V    | 2.2µF 50V 1206 X7R | 47µF 6.3V 1206 X5R | 2.43M   | >2V, <25V         |
| 18V - 36V    | 1.8V    | 2.2µF 50V 1206 X7R | 22µF 6.3V 1206 X7R | 1.1M    | >2V, <25V         |
| 18V - 36V    | 2.5V    | 2.2µF 50V 1206 X7R | 10µF 6.3V 0805 X7R | 499k    | V OUT             |
| 18V - 36V    | 3.3V    | 2.2µF 50V 1206 X7R | 10µF 6.3V 0805 X7R | 301k    | V OUT             |
| 18V - 36V    | 5V      | 2.2µF 50V 1206 X7R | 10µF 6.3V 0805 X7R | 165k    | V OUT             |
| 3.3V - 30V   | -3.3V   | 2.2µF 50V 1206 X7R | 22µF 6.3V 0805 X7R | 301k    | V OUT             |
| 5V - 30V     | -5V     | 2.2µF 50V 1206 X7R | 10µF 6.3V 0805 X7R | 165k    | V OUT             |

## TYPICAL APPLICATIONS

## 1.25V Step-Down Converter

<!-- image -->

*RUNNING VOLTAGE RANGE. PLEASE REFER TO APPLICATIONS INFORMATION FOR START-UP DETAILS

## 1.8V Step-Down Converter

*RUNNING VOLTAGE RANGE. PLEASE REFER TO APPLICATIONS INFORMATION FOR START-UP DETAILS

<!-- image -->

## -5V Positive-to-Negative Converter

<!-- image -->

*RUNNING VOLTAGE RANGE. PLEASE REFER TO APPLICATIONS INFORMATION FOR START-UP DETAILS

## 3.3V Step-Down Converter

<!-- image -->

*RUNNING VOLTAGE RANGE. PLEASE REFER TO APPLICATIONS INFORMATION FOR START-UP DETAILS

## 5V Step-Down Converter (No Output Capacitor Required)

<!-- image -->

*RUNNING VOLTAGE RANGE. PLEASE REFER TO APPLICATIONS INFORMATION FOR START-UP DETAILS

-5V Positive-to-Negative Converter Output vs Input Voltage

<!-- image -->

8020 TA08

## PACKAGE DESCRIPTION

<!-- image -->

PACKAGE ROW AND COLUMN LABELING MAY VARY AMONG µModule PRODUCTS. REVIEW EACH PACKAGE LAYOUT CAREFULLY .

## LTM8020 Pinout (Sorted by Pin Number)

| PIN   | SIGNAL DESCRIPTION   |
|-------|----------------------|
| A1    | V IN                 |
| A2    | V IN                 |
| A4    | V OUT                |
| A5    | V OUT                |
| B4    | V OUT                |
| B5    | V OUT                |
| C1    | SHDN                 |
| C2    | GND                  |
| C3    | BIAS                 |
| C4    | V OUT                |
| C5    | V OUT                |
| D1    | GND                  |
| D2    | GND                  |
| D3    | GND                  |
| D4    | GND                  |
| D5    | GND                  |
| E1    | ADJ                  |
| E2    | GND                  |
| E3    | GND                  |
| E4    | GND                  |
| E5    | GND                  |

## PACKAGE DESCRIPTION

LGA Package

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

## REVISION HISTORY (Revision history begins at Rev D)

| REV   | DATE   | DESCRIPTION                                                               |   PAGE NUMBER |
|-------|--------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| D     | 03/10  | Changes to Description and Features.                                      |             1 |
|       |        | Changes to Applications Information.                                      |             8 |
|       |        | 'Electromagnetic Compliance' Paragraph Added to Applications Information. |            11 |
|       |        | Changes to Typical Application.                                           |            13 |
| E     | 08/17  | Corrected -5V circuit from I OUT of 85µA to 85mA.                         |            12 |
| F     | 09/21  | Changed T A = -25°C to 25°C.                                              |             5 |
|       |        | Reworded Notes.                                                           |            12 |

## TYPICAL APPLICATION

<!-- image -->

*RUNNING VOLTAGE RANGE. PLEASE REFER TO APPLICATIONS INFORMATION FOR START-UP DETAILS

## DESIGN RESOURCES

| SUBJECT                                    | DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|--------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| µModule Design and Manufacturing Resources | Design: • Selector Guides • Demo Boards and Gerber Files • Free Simulation Tools                                                                                                                                                                                              | Manufacturing: • Quick Start Guide • PCB Design, Assembly and Manufacturing Guidelines • Package and Board Level Reliability                                                                                                                                                  |
| µModule Regulator Products Search          | 1. Sort table of products by parameters and download the result as a spread sheet. 2. Search using the Quick Power Search parametric table.                                                                                                                                   | 1. Sort table of products by parameters and download the result as a spread sheet. 2. Search using the Quick Power Search parametric table.                                                                                                                                   |
| Digital Power System Management            | Analog Devices' family of digital power supply management ICs are highly integrated solutions that offer essential functions, including power supply monitoring, supervision, margining and sequencing, and feature EEPROM for storing user configurations and fault logging. | Analog Devices' family of digital power supply management ICs are highly integrated solutions that offer essential functions, including power supply monitoring, supervision, margining and sequencing, and feature EEPROM for storing user configurations and fault logging. |

## RELATED PARTS

| PART NUMBER       | DESCRIPTION                                                                | COMMENTS                                                                                                      |
|-------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| LTM4600           | 10A DC/DC µModule                                                          | Basic 10A DC/DC µModule, 15mm × 15mm × 2.8mm LGA                                                              |
| LTM4600HVMPV      | Military Plastic 10A DC/DC µModule                                         | -55°C to 125°C Operation, 15mm × 15mm × 2.8mm LGA                                                             |
| LTM4601/ LTM4601A | 12A DC/DC µModule with PLL, Output Tracking/Margining and Remote Sensing   | Synchronizable, PolyPhase Operation, LTM4601-1 Version has no Remote Sensing                                  |
| LTM4602           | 6A DC/DC µModule                                                           | Pin Compatible with the LTM4600                                                                               |
| LTM4603           | 6A DC/DC µModule with PLL and Output Tracking/Margining and Remote Sensing | Synchronizable, PolyPhase Operation, LTM4603-1 Version has no Remote Sensing, Pin Compatible with the LTM4601 |
| LTM4604           | 4A Low V IN DC/DC µModule                                                  | 2.375V ≤ V IN ≤ 5V, 0.8V ≤ V OUT ≤ 5V, 9mm × 15mm × 2.3mm LGA                                                 |
| LTM4608           | 8A Low V IN DC/DC µModule                                                  | 2.375V ≤ V IN ≤ 5V, 0.8V ≤ V OUT ≤ 5V, 9mm × 15mm × 2.8mm LGA                                                 |
| LTM8022           | 1A, 36V DC/DC µModule                                                      | Adjustable Frequency, 0.8V ≤ V OUT ≤ 5V, 11.25mm × 9mm × 2.82mm, Pin Compatible to the LTM8023                |
| LTM8023           | 2A, 36V DC/DC µModule                                                      | Adjustable Frequency, 0.8V ≤ V OUT ≤ 5V, 11.25mm × 9mm × 2.82mm, Pin Compatible to the LTM8022                |

<!-- image -->

For more information www.analog.com