<!-- lastmod 2025-11-12 -->
<!-- image -->

## FEATURES

- n 2kVAC Isolated µModule Converter
- n UL60950 Recognized File 464570
- n Wide Input Voltage Range: 3V to 40V
- n Up to 450mA Output Current (V IN  = 24V ,  V OUT  = 5V) Output Adjustable from 2.5V to 24V
- n Current Mode Control
- n User Configurable Undervoltage Lockout
- n Low Profile (9mm × 11.25mm × 4.92mm) BGA Package

## APPLICATIONS

- n Isolated IGBT Gate Drive
- n Industrial Sensors
- n Industrial Switches
- n Test and Measurement Equipment

## TYPICAL APPLICATION

## 2kVAC Isolated µModule Regulator

F

B

<!-- image -->

## 3VIN to 40VIN Isolated µModule DC/DC Converter

## DESCRIPTION

The LTM ® 8067 is a 2kVAC isolated flyback power µModule ® (micromodule) DC/DC converter . Included in the package is the switching controller , the power switches, a transformer,  and  all  the  supported  components.  Operating over an input voltage range of 3V to 40V, the LTM8067 supports an output voltage range of 2.5V to 24V, set by a single resistor . Only output and input capacitors are needed to finish the design.

The LTM8067 is packaged in a thermally enhanced, compact (9mm × 11.25mm × 4.92mm) overmolded ball grid array (BGA) package suitable for automated assembly by standard surface mount equipment. The LTM8067 is available with SnPb or RoHS-compliant terminal finish.

All registered trademarks and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

## Maximum Output Current vs V IN

Max Load Current vs V

IN

<!-- image -->

## ABSOLUTE MAXIMUM RATINGS

(Note 1)

| V IN , RUN, BIAS ........................................................42V   |       |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------|
| V OUT Relative to V OUTN .............................................25V      |       |
| V IN + V OUT (Note 2)...................................................48V    |       |
| GND to V OUT - Isolation (Note 3) ...........................2kVAC             |       |
| Maximum Internal Temperature (Note 4)..............                            | 125°C |
| Peak Solder Reflow Body Temperature.................                           | 245°C |
| Storage Temperature.............................. -55°C to                     | 125°C |

## ORDER INFORMATION

|               |                    | PART MARKING   | PART MARKING   | PACKAGE TYPE   | MSL RATING   |                                |
|---------------|--------------------|----------------|----------------|----------------|--------------|--------------------------------|
| PART NUMBER   | PAD OR BALL FINISH | DEVICE         | CODE           |                |              | TEMPERATURE RANGE (SEE NOTE 4) |
| LTM8067EY#PBF | SAC305 (RoHS)      | LTM8067Y       | e1             | BGA            | 3            | -40°C to 125°C                 |
| LTM8067IY#PBF | SAC305 (RoHS)      | LTM8067Y       | e1             | BGA            | 3            | -40°C to 125°C                 |
| LTM8067IY     | SnPb (63/37)       | LTM8067Y       | e0             | BGA            | 3            | -40°C to 125°C                 |

-  Contact the factory for parts specified with wider operating temperature ranges.
-  Device temperature grade is indicated by a label on the shipping container .
-  Pad or ball finish code is per IPC/JEDEC J-STD-609.
-  Recommended LGA and BGA PCB Assembly and Manufacturing Procedures.
-  LGA and BGA Package and Tray Drawings.

## PIN CONFIGURATION

T JMAX  = 125°C, θ JA  = 20.8°C/W , θ JCbottom  = 5.1°C/W , θ JCtop  = 18.4°C/W , θ JB  = 5.3°C/W WEIGHT = 1.1g, θ VALUES DETERMINED PER JESD 51-9, 51-12

<!-- image -->

## ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS

The l denotes the specifications which apply over the full internal operating temperature range, otherwise specifications are at T A  = 25°C, RUN = 2V (Note 4).

| PARAMETER                   | CONDITIONS                                |    | MIN   | TYP      | MAX   | UNITS   |
|-----------------------------|-------------------------------------------|----|-------|----------|-------|---------|
| Minimum Input DC Voltage    | RUN = 2V                                  | l  |       |          | 3     | V       |
| V OUT DC Voltage            | R ADJ = 15.4k R ADJ = 8.25k R ADJ = 1.78k | l  | 4.75  | 2.5 5 24 | 5.25  | V V V   |
| V IN Quiescent Current      | V RUN = 0V Not Switching                  |    |       | 7        | 3     | µA mA   |
| V OUT Line Regulation       | 3V ≤ V IN ≤ 40V, I OUT = 0.1A, RUN = 2V   |    |       | 1        |       | %       |
| V OUT Load Regulation       | 0.05A ≤ I OUT ≤ 0.3A, RUN = 2V            |    |       | 1        |       | %       |
| V OUT Ripple (RMS)          | I OUT = 0.1A, 1MHz BW                     |    |       | 30       |       | mV      |
| Isolation Voltage           | (Note 3)                                  |    |       | 2        |       | kV      |
| Input Short-Circuit Current | V OUT Shorted                             |    |       | 80       |       | mA      |
| RUN Pin Input Threshold     | RUN Pin Falling                           |    | 1.18  | 1.214    | 1.25  | V       |
| RUN Pin Current             | V RUN = 1V V RUN = 1.3V                   |    |       | 2.5      | 0.1   | µA µA   |

Note 1: Stresses beyond those listed under Absolute Maximum Ratings may cause permanent damage to the device. Exposure to any Absolute Maximum Rating condition for extended periods may affect device reliability and lifetime.

Note 2: V IN + V OUT is defined as the sum of (V IN  - GND) + (V OUT  - V OUTN ). Note 3: The LTM8067 isolation test voltage of either 2kVAC or its equivalent of 2.83kVDC is applied for one second.

Note 4: The LTM8067E is guaranteed to meet performance specifications from 0°C to 125°C. Specifications over the -40°C to 125°C internal temperature range are assured by design, characterization and correlation with statistical process controls. LTM8067I is guaranteed to meet specifications over the full -40°C to 125°C internal operating temperature range. Note that the maximum internal temperature is determined by specific operating conditions in conjunction with board layout, the rated package thermal resistance and other environmental factors.

<!-- image -->

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS

as in Table 1 (T A  = 25°C).

Efficiency vs Load Current, VOUT  = 2.5V EfGLYPH&lt;31&gt;ciency , V OUT = 2.5V

<!-- image -->

8067 G01

Efficiency vs Load Current, VOUT  = 8V OUT

5

<!-- image -->

8067 G04

Efficiency vs Load Current, VOUT  = 24V OUT

5

<!-- image -->

2

5

1

2

5

8067 G07

Unless otherwise noted, operating conditions are

<!-- image -->

5

Efficiency vs Load Current, VOUT  = 5V OUT

8067 G02

<!-- image -->

8067 G05

Input Current vs Load Current VOUT  = 2.5V VOUT = 2.5V

2

5

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

8067 G03

Efficiency vs Load Current, VOUT  = 15V OUT

5

Input Current vs Load Current VOUT  = 3.3V VOUT = 3.3V

<!-- image -->

8067 G06

<!-- image -->

8067 G09

Rev. E

8067 G08

1

2

5

2

5

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS

as in Table 1 (T A  = 25°C).

Input Current vs Load Current VOUT  = 5V OUT

<!-- image -->

8067 G10

Input Current vs Load Current VOUT  = 15V VOUT = 15V

8067 G13

Maximum Load Current vs V OUT Maximum Load Current vs VOUT

<!-- image -->

1

2

5

<!-- image -->

5

1

5

2

5

8067 G16

Unless otherwise noted, operating conditions are

Input Current vs Load Current VOUT  = 8V OUT

Input Current vs Load Current VOUT  = 12V VOUT = 12V

<!-- image -->

8067 G1

<!-- image -->

Input Current vs Load Current VOUT  = 24V OUT

<!-- image -->

8067 G14

Maximum Load Current vs V IN IN

8067 G17

<!-- image -->

8067 G12

<!-- image -->

8067 G15

Maximum Load Current vs V IN Max Load Current vs V IN

<!-- image -->

8067 G18

Rev. E

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS

as in Table 1 (T A  = 25°C).

<!-- image -->

8067 G19

Frequency vs V OUT  Load Current Stock DC2357A Demo Board Stock DC2357A Demo Board

<!-- image -->

8067 G2

1

5

2

5

5

°

Unless otherwise noted, operating conditions are

Minimum Load Current vs V OUT Over Full Output Voltage Range

1

2

8067 G20

Output Noise and Ripple DC2357A, 200mA Load Current

Derating, 2.5V OUT OUT

<!-- image -->

2

5

1

2

5

8067 G23

Derating, 3.3V OUT Derating, 3.3V OUT

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

2

5

1

2

5

<!-- image -->

°

## TYPICAL PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS

as in Table 1 (T A  = 25°C).

2

5

<!-- image -->

°

8067 G25

Derating, 15V OUT OUT

Unless otherwise noted, operating conditions are

<!-- image -->

1

2

5

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

2

5

1

2

5

°

1

2

5

8067 G26

Derating, 12V OUT Derating, 12V OUT

<!-- image -->

2

5

2

5

2

5

1

2

5

°

2

5

°

2

5

°

1

2

5

8067 G27

## PIN FUNCTIONS

<!-- image -->

PACKAGE ROW AND COLUMN LABELING MAY VARY AMONG µModule PRODUCTS. REVIEW EACH PACKAGE LAYOUT CAREFULLY .

VOUT  (Bank 1): V OUT  and V OUTN  comprise the isolated output of the LTM8067 flyback stage. Apply an external capacitor between V OUT  and V OUTN . Do not allow V OUTN to exceed V OUT .

VOUTN  (Bank 2): V OUTN  is the return for V OUT . V OUT  and VOUTN  comprise the isolated output of the LTM8067. In most applications, the bulk of the heat flow out of the LTM8067 is through the GND and V OUTN  pads, so the printed circuit design has a large impact on the thermal performance of the part. See the PCB Layout and Thermal Considerations in the Applications Information section for more details. Apply an external capacitor between V OUT and V OUTN .

GND (Bank 4): This is the primary side local ground of the LTM8067 primary. In most applications, the bulk of the heat flow out of the LTM8067 is through the GND and  V OUTN   pads,  so  the  printed  circuit  design  has  a large impact on the thermal performance of the part. See the PCB Layout and Thermal Considerations in the Applications Information section for more details.

VIN   (Bank  5): V IN   supplies  current  to  the  LTM8067's internal regulator and to the integrated power switch. These pins must be locally bypassed with an external, low ESR capacitor.

RUN (Pin F3): A resistive divider connected to V IN and this pin programs the minimum voltage at which the LTM8067 will operate. Below 1.214V, the LTM8067 does not deliver power to the secondary. When RUN is less than 1.214V, the pin draws 2.5µA, allowing for a programmable hysteresis. Do not allow a negative voltage (relative to GND) on this pin. Tie this pin to V IN if it is not used.

FB (Pin G7): Apply a resistor from this pin to GND to set the output voltage V OUTN  relative to V OUTN , using the recommended value given in Table 1. If Table 1 does not list the desired V OUT  value, the equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

may be used to approximate the value. To the seasoned designer , this exponential equation may seem unusual. The equation is exponential due to nonlinear current sources that are used to temperature compensate the regulation. Do not drive this pin with an external power source.

Because of parametric shifts, some parts may experience noise sensitivity at the FB pin. This can cause the output voltage  to  lose  regulation  for  higher  V IN and/or  higher load conditions. Depending on your specific board layout, the printed circuit board trace capacitance may be large enough to suppress the noise and avoid this undesired behavior. As a precaution, it is recommended to add a 10pF capacitor from the FB pin to GND to ensure noise immunity for all operating conditions and board layout differences. See the DC2357A demo manual.

## BLOCK DIAGRAM

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

## OPERATION

The LTM8067 is a standalone isolated flyback switching DC/DC power supply that can deliver up to 450mA of output current at 5V OUT,  24V IN . This module provides a regulated output voltage programmable via one external resistor from 2.5V to 24V. The input voltage range of the LTM8067 is 3V to 40V. Given that the LTM8067 is a flyback converter , the output current depends upon the input and output voltages, so make sure that the input voltage is high enough to support the desired output voltage and load current. The Typical Performance Characteristics section gives several graphs of the maximum load versus VIN  for several output voltages.

The LTM8067 contains a current mode controller , power switching element, power transformer , power Schottky diode and a modest amount of input and output capacitance (see Block Diagram for more details).

The LTM8067 has a galvanic primary to secondary isolation rating of 2kVAC. See Isolation, Working Voltage and Safety Compliance in the Applications Information section for more details. The LTM8067 is a UL 60950 recognized component.

The RUN pin is used to turn on or off the LTM8067, disconnecting the output and reducing the input current to 1μA or less.

The LTM8067 is a variable frequency device. For a given input and output voltage, the frequency increases from light load through moderate load, then begins to decrease until full load is reached. An example of this is shown in the Typical Performance Characteristics section. For light loads, the current through the internal transformer may be discontinuous.

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

For most applications, the design process is straight forward, summarized as follows:

1. Look at Table 1 and find the row that has the desired input range and output voltage.
2. Apply the recommended C IN , C OUT  and R FB .

While these component combinations have been tested for proper operation, it is incumbent upon the user to verify proper operation over the intended system's line, load and environmental conditions. Bear in mind that the maximum output current may be limited by junction temperature, the relationship between the input and output voltage magnitude and polarity and other factors. See the graphs in the Typical Performance Characteristics section for guidance.

## Capacitor Selection Considerations

The C IN and C OUT  capacitor values in Table 1 are the minimum recommended values for the associated operating conditions. Applying capacitor values below those indicated in Table 1 is not recommended, and may result in undesirable operation. Using larger values is generally acceptable, and can yield improved dynamic response, if it is necessary. Again, it is incumbent upon the user to verify proper operation over the intended system's line, load and environmental conditions.

Ceramic capacitors are small, robust and have very low ESR. However , not all ceramic capacitors are suitable. X5R and X7R types are stable over temperature and applied voltage and give dependable service. Other types, including Y5V and Z5U have very large temperature and voltage coefficients of capacitance. In an application circuit they may have only a small fraction of their nominal capacitance  resulting  in  much  higher  output  voltage  ripple than expected.

A final precaution regarding ceramic capacitors concerns the maximum input voltage rating of the LTM8067. A ceramic input capacitor combined with trace or cable inductance forms a high-Q (underdamped) tank circuit. If the LTM8067 circuit is plugged into a live supply, the input voltage can ring to much higher than its nominal value, possibly exceeding the device's rating. This situation is easily avoided; see the Hot-Plugging Safely in the Applications Information section.

Table 1. Recommended Component Values for Specific V OUT  Values (T A  = 25°C)

| V IN      | V OUT   | C IN             | C OUT             | R FB   |
|-----------|---------|------------------|-------------------|--------|
| 3V to 40V | 2.5V    | 2.2µF, 50V, 1206 | 100µF, 6.3V, 1210 | 15.4k  |
| 3V to 40V | 3.3V    | 2.2µF, 50V, 1206 | 47µF, 6.3V, 1210  | 11.8k  |
| 3V to 40V | 5V      | 2.2µF, 50V, 1206 | 22µF, 16V, 1210   | 8.25k  |
| 3V to 37V | 8V      | 2.2µF, 50V, 1206 | 22µF, 16V, 1210   | 5.23k  |
| 3V to 33V | 12V     | 4.7µF, 50V, 1206 | 10µF, 50V, 1210   | 3.48k  |
| 3V to 30V | 15V     | 4.7µF, 50V, 1206 | 4.7µF, 25V, 1210  | 2.8k   |
| 3V to 27V | 18V     | 4.7µF, 50V, 1206 | 4.7µF, 25V, 1210  | 2.37k  |
| 3V to 21V | 24V     | 4.7µF, 50V, 1206 | 4.7µF, 25V, 1210  | 1.78k  |

Note:   An input bulk capacitor is required.

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## Isolation, Working Voltage and Safety Compliance

The LTM8067 isolation is 100% hi-pot tested by tying all of the primary pins together , all of the secondary pins together and subjecting the two resultant circuits to a high voltage differential for one second. This establishes the isolation voltage rating of the LTM8067 component.

The isolation rating of the LTM8067 is not the same as the working or operational voltage that the application will experience. This is subject to the application's power source, operating conditions, the industry where the end product is used and other factors that dictate design requirements such as the gap between copper planes, traces and component pins on the printed circuit board, as well as the type of connector that may be used. To maximize the allowable working voltage, the LTM8067 has two columns of solder balls removed to facilitate the printed circuit board design. The ball to ball pitch is 1.27mm, and the typical ball diameter is 0.75mm. Accounting for the missing columns and the ball diameter , the printed circuit board may be designed for a metal-to-metal separation of up to 3.06mm. This may have to be reduced somewhat to allow for tolerances in solder mask or other printed circuit board design rules. For those situations where information about the spacing of LTM8067 internal circuitry is required, the minimum metal to metal separation of the primary and secondary is 1mm.

To reiterate, the manufacturer's isolation voltage rating and the required working or operational voltage are often different numbers. In the case of the LTM8067, the isolation voltage rating is established by 100% hi-pot testing. The working or operational voltage is a function of the end product and its system level specifications. The actual required operational voltage is often smaller than the manufacturer's isolation rating.

The  LTM8067  is  a  UL  recognized  component  under UL 60950, file number 464570. The UL 60950 insulation category of the LTM8067 transformer is Functional. Considering UL 60950 Table 2N and the gap distances stated above, 3.06mm external and 1mm internal, the

LTM8067 may be operated with up to 250V working voltage in a pollution degree 2 environment. The actual working voltage, insulation category, pollution degree and other critical parameters for the specific end application depend upon the actual environmental, application and safety compliance requirements. It is therefore up to the user to perform a safety and compliance review to ensure that the LTM8067 is suitable for the intended application.

## Safety Rated Capacitors

Some applications require safety rated capacitors, which are high voltage capacitors that are specifically designed and rated for AC operation and high voltage surges. These capacitors are often certified to safety standards such as UL 60950, IEC 60950 and others. In the case of the LTM8067, a common application of a safety rated capacitor would be to connect it from GND to V OUTN . To provide maximum flexibility, the LTM8067 does not include any components between GND and V OUTN . Any safety capacitors must be added externally.

The specific capacitor and circuit configuration for any application  depends  upon  the  safety  requirements  of the system into which the LTM8067 is being designed. Table 2 provides a list of possible capacitors and their manufacturers. The application of a capacitor from GND to V OUTN  may also reduce the high frequency output noise on the output.

Table 2. Safety Rated Capacitors

| MANUFACTURER         | PART NUMBER            | DESCRIPTION                                   |
|----------------------|------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| Murata Electronics   | GA343DR7GD472KW01L     | 4700pF, 250V AC, X7R, 4.5mm × 3.2mm Capacitor |
| Johanson Dielectrics | 302R29W471KV3E-****-SC | 470pF, 250V AC, X7R, 4.5mm × 2mm Capacitor    |
| Syfer Technology     | 1808JA250102JCTSP      | 100pF, 250V AC, C0G, 1808 Capacitor           |

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## PCB Layout

Most of the headaches associated with PCB layout have been alleviated or even eliminated by the high level of integration of the LTM8067. The LTM8067 is nevertheless a switching power supply, and care must be taken to minimize electrical noise to ensure proper operation. Even with the high level of integration, you may fail to achieve specified operation with a haphazard or poor layout. See Figure 1 for a suggested layout. Ensure that the grounding and heat sinking are acceptable.

A few rules to keep in mind are:

1. Place the R FB resistor as close as possible to its respective pin.
2. Place the C IN capacitor as close as possible to the V IN and GND connections of the LTM8067.
3. Place the C OUT  capacitor as close as possible to V OUT and V OUTN
4. Place  the  C IN and  C OUT   capacitors  such  that  their ground current flow directly adjacent to or underneath the LTM8067.
5. Connect all of the GND connections to as large a copper pour or plane area as possible on the top layer . Avoid breaking the ground connection between the external components and the LTM8067.
6. Use vias to connect the GND copper area to the board's internal ground planes. Liberally distribute these GND vias to provide both a good ground connection and thermal path to the internal planes of the printed circuit board. Pay attention to the location and density of the thermal vias in Figure 1. The LTM8067 can benefit from the heat sinking afforded by vias that connect to internal GND planes at these locations, due to their proximity  to  internal  power  handling  components. The optimum number of thermal vias depends upon the printed circuit board design. For example, a board might use very small via holes. It should employ more thermal vias than a board that uses larger holes.

<!-- image -->

8067 F01

Figure 1. Layout Showing Suggested External Components, Planes and Thermal Vias

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

## Minimum Load

Due to the nature of the flyback regulator in general, and the LTM8067 control scheme specifically, the LTM8067 requires a minimum load for proper operation. Otherwise, the output may go out of regulation if the load is too light. The most common way to address this is to place a resistor across the output. The Minimum Load Current vs V OUT  Over Full Output Voltage Range graph in the Typical  Performance  Characteristics  section  may  be used as a guide in selecting the resistor . Note that this graph describes room temperature operation. If the end application operates at a colder temperature, the minimum load requirement may be higher and the minimum load  condition  must  be  characterized  for  the  lowest operating temperature.

If it is impractical to place a resistive load permanently across the output, a resistor and Zener diode may be used instead, as shown in Figure 2. While the minimum load resistor mentioned in the prior paragraph will always draw current while the LTM8067 output is powered, the series resistor-Zener diode combination will only draw current if the output is too high.  When using this circuit, take care to ensure that the characteristics of the Zener diode are appropriate for the intended application's temperature range.

Figure 2. Use a Resistor and Zener Diode to Meet the Minimum Load Requirement

<!-- image -->

## Hot-Plugging Safely

The small size, robustness and low impedance of ceramic capacitors make them an attractive option for the input bypass capacitor of the LTM8067. However , these capacitors can cause problems if the LTM8067 is plugged into a live supply (see Analog Devices Application Note 88 for a complete discussion). The low loss ceramic capacitor combined with stray inductance in series with the power source forms an underdamped tank circuit, and the voltage at the V IN  pin of the LTM8067 can ring to more than twice the nominal input voltage, possibly exceeding the LTM8067's rating and damaging the part. If the input supply is poorly controlled or the user will be plugging the LTM8067 into an energized supply, the input network should be designed to prevent this overshoot. This can be accomplished by installing a small resistor in series to V IN , but the most popular method of controlling input voltage overshoot is adding an electrolytic bulk capacitor to the V IN  net. This capacitor's relatively high equivalent series resistance damps the circuit and eliminates the voltage overshoot. The extra capacitor improves low frequency ripple filtering and can slightly improve the efficiency of the circuit, though it can be a large component in the circuit.

## Thermal Considerations

The LTM8067 output current may need to be derated if it is required to operate in a high ambient temperature. The amount of current derating is dependent upon the input voltage, output power and ambient temperature. The temperature rise curves given in the Typical Performance Characteristics section can be used as a guide. These curves  were  generated  by  the  LTM8067  mounted  to a  58cm 2 4-layer  FR4  printed  circuit  board.  Boards  of other sizes and layer count can exhibit different thermal behavior , so it is incumbent upon the user to verify proper operation over the intended system's line, load and environmental operating conditions.

For increased accuracy and fidelity to the actual application, many designers use FEA to predict thermal performance. To that end, the Pin Configuration section typically gives four thermal coefficients:

θ JA : Thermal resistance from junction to ambient

θ JCbottom : Thermal resistance from junction to the bottom of the product case

θ JCtop : Thermal resistance from junction to top of the product case

θ JCboard :  Thermal  resistance  from  junction  to  the printed circuit board.

While the meaning of each of these coefficients may seem to be intuitive, JEDEC has defined each to avoid

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

confusion and inconsistency. These definitions are given in JESD 51-12, and are quoted or paraphrased as follows:

1. θ JA   is  the  natural  convection  junction-to-ambient  air  thermal  resistance  measured  in  a  one cubic  foot  sealed  enclosure.  This  environment is  sometimes  referred  to  as  still  air  although natural  convection  causes  the  air  to  move.  This value  is  determined  with  the  part  mounted  to  a JESD 51-9 defined test board, which does not reflect an actual application or viable operating condition.
2. θ JCbottom  is the junction-to-board thermal resistance with all of the component power dissipation flowing through the bottom of the package. In the typical µModule converter , the bulk of the heat flows out the bottom of the package, but there is always heat flow out into the ambient environment. As a result, this thermal resistance value may be useful for comparing packages but the test conditions don't generally match the user's application.
3. θ JCtop  is determined with nearly all of the component power dissipation flowing through the top of the package. As the electrical connections of the typical µModule converter are on the bottom of the package, it is rare for an application to operate such that most of the heat flows from the junction to the top of the part. As in the case of θ JCbottom , this value may be useful for comparing packages but the test conditions don't generally match the user's application.
4. θ JCboard  is the junction-to-board thermal resistance where almost all of the heat flows through the bottom

of the µModule converter and into the board, and is really the sum of the θ JCbottom  and the thermal resistance of the bottom of the part through the solder joints and through a portion of the board. The board temperature is measured a specified distance from the package, using a two-sided, two-layer board. This board is described in JESD 51-9.

Given these definitions, it should now be apparent that none of these thermal coefficients reflects an actual physical operating condition of a µModule converter . Thus, none of them can be individually used to accurately predict the thermal performance of the product. Likewise, it would be inappropriate to attempt to use any one coefficient to correlate to the junction temperature vs load graphs given in the product's data sheet. The only appropriate way to use the coefficients is when running a detailed thermal analysis, such as FEA, which considers all of the thermal resistances simultaneously.

A graphical representation of these thermal resistances is given in Figure 3.

The blue resistances are contained within the µModule converter , and the green are outside.

The die temperature of the LTM8067 must be lower than the maximum rating of 125°C, so care should be taken in the layout of the circuit to ensure good heat sinking of the LTM8067. The bulk of the heat flow out of the LTM8067 is through the bottom of the module and the BGA pads into the printed circuit board. Consequently a poor printed circuit board design can cause excessive heating, resulting in impaired performance or reliability. See the PCB Layout section for printed circuit board design suggestions.

Figure 3. Approximate Thermal Model of LTM8067

<!-- image -->

## APPLICATIONS INFORMATION

12V Flyback Converter

F

<!-- image -->

B

-15V Inverting Regulator

F

B

Maximum Load Current vs V IN

<!-- image -->

OUT

Maximum Load Current vs VIN

<!-- image -->

OUT

<!-- image -->

## PACKAGE DESCRIPTION

## Pin Assignment Table (Arranged by Pin Number)

| PIN   | FUNCTION   | PIN   | FUNCTION   | PIN   | FUNCTION   | PIN   | FUNCTION   | PIN   | FUNCTION   | PIN   | FUNCTION   | PIN   | FUNCTION   | PIN   | FUNCTION   |
|-------|------------|-------|------------|-------|------------|-------|------------|-------|------------|-------|------------|-------|------------|-------|------------|
| A1    | V OUTN     | B1    | V OUTN     | C1    | -          | D1    | -          | E1    | GND        | F1    | -          | G1    | V IN       | H1    | V IN       |
| A2    | V OUTN     | B2    | V OUTN     | C2    | -          | D2    | -          | E2    | GND        | F2    | -          | G2    | V IN       | H2    | V IN       |
| A3    | V OUTN     | B3    | V OUTN     | C3    | -          | D3    | -          | E3    | GND        | F3    | RUN        | G3    | -          | H3    | -          |
| A4    | V OUTN     | B4    | V OUTN     | C4    | -          | D4    | -          | E4    | GND        | F4    | GND        | G4    | GND        | H4    | GND        |
| A5    | V OUTN     | B5    | V OUTN     | C5    | -          | D5    | -          | E5    | GND        | F5    | GND        | G5    | GND        | H5    | GND        |
| A6    | V OUT      | B6    | V OUT      | C6    | -          | D6    | -          | E6    | GND        | F6    | GND        | G6    | GND        | H6    | GND        |
| A7    | V OUT      | B7    | V OUT      | C7    | -          | D7    | -          | E7    | GND        | F7    | GND        | G7    | FB         | H7    | GND        |

## PACKAGE PHOTOS Part marking is either ink mark or laser mark

<!-- image -->

## PACKAGE DESCRIPTION

4.92mm)

×

9.00mm

×

38-Lead (11.25mm

<!-- image -->

BGA Package

## REVISION HISTORY

| REV   | DATE   | DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | PAGE NUMBER          |
|-------|--------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------|
| A     | 05/16  | Corrected symbol of internal switch in the block diagram from NPN transistor to N-channel MOSFET.                                                                                                                                                                        | 9                    |
| B     | 11/16  | Corrected V OUT on Maximum Load Current vs V IN from 12V OUT to 24V OUT and from 15V OUT to 12V OUT . Corrected minimum metal to metal space from 0.75mm to 1mm. Updated the Related Parts table.                                                                        | 6 12 20              |
| C     | 07/17  | Added Minimum Load section.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | 14                   |
| D     | 11/20  | Minimum V IN changed from 2.8V to 3V. Updated Derating graph. Updated text about operating frequency.                                                                                                                                                                    | 1, 3, 10, 11 6, 7 10 |
| E     | 11/25  | Fixed major document formatting issues (updated document template, package photos, and cross references). Changed lead to pin in the Pin Configuration. Added parametric shifts information in the Pin Functions section. Added ink marking statement to package photos. | All 2 8 17           |

## TYPICAL APPLICATION

## 15V Floating 1GBT Gate Drive

F

B

<!-- image -->

## DESIGN RESOURCES

| RESOURCES                                  | DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|--------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| µModule Design, Manufacturing and Assembly | Design • Evaluation Board and Gerber Files • Free Design Tools, Including LTspice ® , and LTpowerCAD ® • Circuit Simulations Manufacturing • Quick Start Guides • PCB Design, Assembly and Manufacturing Guidelines • Package and Board Level Reliability                       |
| µModule Regulator Products Search          | 1. Sort table of products by parameters and download the result as a spread sheet. 2. Search using the Quick Power Search parametric table. Quick Search Input Output Features V in (Min) V in (Max) V out I out V V V A Internal Heat Sink Ultrathin Low EMI                   |
| Digital Power System Management            | The Analog Devices family of digital power supply management ICs are highly integrated solutions that offer essential functions, including power supply monitoring, supervision, margining and sequencing and feature EEPROM for storing user configurations and fault logging. |

## RELATED PARTS

| PART NUMBER   | DESCRIPTION                                                       | COMMENTS                                                                        |
|---------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| LTM8068       | 2kVAC Isolated µModule Converter with LDO Post Regulator          | 3V ≤ V IN ≤40V, 1.2V ≤ V OUT ≤ 18V; 20µV RMS Output Ripple. UL60950 Recognized. |
| LTM8047       | 725VDC, 1.5W Isolated µModule Converter                           | 3.1V ≤ V IN ≤32V, 2.5V ≤ V OUT ≤ 12V                                            |
| LTM8048       | 725VDC, 1.5W Isolated µModule Converter with LDO Post Regulator   | 3.1V ≤ V IN ≤32V, 1.2V ≤ V OUT ≤ 12V; 20µV RMS Output Ripple                    |
| LTM8045       | Inverting or SEPIC µModule DC/DC Convertor                        | 2.8V ≤ V IN ≤18V, 2.5V ≤ V OUT ≤ 15V or -2.5V ≤ V OUT ≤ -15V, Up to 700mA       |
| LT ® 8300     | Isolated Flyback Convertor with 100V IN , 150V/260mA Power Switch | 6V ≤ V IN ≤ 100V, No Opt-Isolator Required                                      |
| LT8301        | Isolated Flyback Convertor with 65V/1.2A Power Switch             | 2.7V ≤ V IN ≤ 42V, No Opt-Isolator Required                                     |
| LT8302        | Isolated Flyback Convertor with 65V/3.6A Power Switch             | 3V ≤ V IN ≤ 42V, No Opt-Isolator Required                                       |
| LTM8049       | Dual Outputs, SEPIC and/or Inverting µModule Regulator            | 2.6V ≤ V IN ≤ 20V, ±2.5V ≤ V OUT ≤ ±25V, 9mm × 15mm × 2.42mm BGA                |

<!-- image -->

1

<!-- image -->

For more information www.analog.com