<!-- lastmod 2026-03-04 -->
<!-- image -->

## 54V, 110A Continuous/140A Peak DC-toDC μModule Regulator with PMBus Interface

## FEATURES

-  High Efficiency at High Frequency: up to 93.9% Efficiency at VIN = 54V to V OUT = 3.3V
-  PMBus-Compliant I 2 C Serial Interface and Non-Volatile Memory/EEPROM:
-  Programming of VOUT, Current Limits, Soft-Start/Soft-Stop, Frequency Synchronization And Phasing, Loop Compensation, Warnings, and Fault Handling
-  Telemetry of Voltage, Current, Temperature, and Faults
-  Configurable ' Black B ox' Fault Log Saves up to 15 Records of All Telemetry and Faults
-  Wide Input Voltage Range: 45V to 65V
-  Output Voltage Range: 0.5V to 3.6V
-  Optimized for VIN = 48V to 54V, VOUT = 3.3V
-  ±1.5% Maximum DC Output Error with Differential Remote Voltage Sense
-  Parallel Multiple µModule ICs for Increased Total I OUT
-  Available in a 22mm × 24mm × 14.15mm SurfaceMounted Open Frame Package

## APPLICATIONS

-  Servers, Network, and Storage Equipment
-  Automated test equipment (ATE)

## TYPICAL APPLICATION

+

<!-- image -->

## GENERAL DESCRIPTION

The LTP8813 is a 110A continuous/140A peak step-down power μModule® (micromodule) regulator that provides microprocessor core voltage from a 48V or 54V power distribution system. The LTP8813  features remote configurability  and  telemetry  of  power  management parameters over PMBus, an open-standard digital interface based on I 2 C.

The  LTP8813  is  comprised  of  a  programmable  digital -signal  circuitry,  an EEPROM, power MOSFETs, a planar transformer, inductors,  and  ancillary  components.  The  LTP8813 's high  level of  integration  minimizes  component  count and design time and maximizes flexibility and power density.

The LTP8813 preserves high efficiency at high conversion ratios by utilizing a quasi-resonant architecture that reduces high-voltage switching losses.

Figure 1. VOUT = 3.3V, IOUT = 110A Continuous/140A Peak DC-to-DC µModule Regulator with PMBus Interface

<!-- image -->

Figure 2. Efficiency vs. Power Loss for VOUT = 3.3V

Tel: 781.329.4700

<!-- image -->

ALL  INFORMATION  CONTAINED  HEREIN  IS  PROVIDED  'AS  IS'  WITHOUT  REPRESENTATION  OR  WARRANTY.  NO  RESPONSIBILITY  IS ASSUMED BY ANALOG DEVICES FOR ITS USE, NOR FOR ANY INFRINGEMENTS OF PATENTS OR OTHER RIGHTS OF THIRD PARTIES THAT MAY  RESULT  FROM  ITS  USE.  SPECIFICATIONS  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE.  NO  LICENCE,  EITHER  EXPRESSED  OR IMPLIED, IS GRANTED UNDER ANY ADI PATENT RIGHT, COPYRIGHT, MASK WORK RIGHT, OR ANY OTHER ADI INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHT RELATING TO ANY COMBINATION, MACHINE, OR PROCESS, IN WHICH ADI PRODUCTS OR SERVICES ARE USED. TRADEMARKS AND REGISTERED TRADEMARKS ARE THE PROPERTY OF THEIR RESPECTIVE OWNERS. ALL ANALOG DEVICES PRODUCTS CONTAINED HEREIN ARE SUBJECT TO RELEASE AND AVAILABILITY.