<!-- lastmod 2026-03-11 -->
<!-- image -->

## MAX16170A

## General Description

The MAX16170A, a high-voltage ideal diode controller, offers full system-level protections for automotive applications. The MAX16170A is designed to enhance system safety, reliability,  and  performance  with  added diagnostics,  robust  fault-recovery  mode,  and  a  highside,  integrated  current-sense  amplifier  (CSA).  The MAX16170A  features  dual-gate  driver  topology  that supports common-drain configuration and protects systems  against  reverse  voltage,  input  overvoltage (OV), undervoltage (UV), overcurrent, and thermal fault conditions.  During  power-up,  the  device  monitors  the health of the external power metal-oxide semiconductor field  effect  transistors  (MOSFETs)  for  open  or  shortcircuit  conditions  and  asserts  an  open-drain  output (FETOK)  when  one  or  both  power  MOSFETs  are damaged. Additionally, the device offers an open-drain fault output (FLT) that asserts low when there is a fault condition.

During normal operation, the MAX16170A regulates the voltage  drop  across  the  drain-to-source  of  MOSFET (Q1) to 10mV to block DC flow to the battery in a reverse voltage  fault  condition.  A  resistor  from  a  low-voltage input (ILIM) to ground sets the overcurrent threshold.

During sleep mode of operation, the device consumes only 5µA (typ) while delivering 1mA (min) of current to the load to support standby  system  operation. In shutdown mode, the charge pump is disabled, and the OV and UV resistive dividers are disconnected from the battery through the TERM switch to lower the shutdown supply current to 3µA (typ).

The  MAX16170A  is  available  in  a  4mm  x  4mm  x 0.75mm, 20-pin, side-wettable, TQFN package with an exposed  pad.  It  operates  over  the -40°C  to  +125°C automotive temperature.

## High-Voltage Ideal Diode Controller with Integrated CSA

## Applications

- Automotive Power Systems
- Network/Telecom Power Systems
- RAID Systems
- Servers
- PoE Systems

## Features and Benefits

- 3V to 65V Operating Voltage Range
- Supports 12V/24V Battery Systems
- -42V to +76V Input Protection Range
- Wider Transients Immunity
- High-Side CSA
- Enables System Power-Level Measurement
- Output Sensing
- Enables Fast Fault Recovery
- 30kHz Active Rectification
- Facilitates System Level Testing Per Automotive Standard
- Supports ORing Application
- Robust Fault-Recovery Mode
- 5µA Shutdown Mode Current
- Extends Battery Life
- Resistor-Adjustable OCP Threshold
- Adds Design Flexibility
- 1mA (min) Sleep Mode Current Output
- Supports Standby Mode of Operation
- FETOK/FLT Outputs
- Enhance System Diagnostics
- AEC-Q100 Qualification in Progress

19-102067; Rev 0; 11/25

## High-Voltage Ideal Diode Controller with Integrated CSA

## Typical Application Circuit

<!-- image -->

## High-Voltage Ideal Diode Controller with Integrated CSA

Notes

<!-- image -->

MAX16170A

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All Analog Devices products contained herein are subject to release and availability.