<!-- lastmod 2025-03-26 -->
<!-- image -->

## Dual, High-Voltage 2.2A Analog Pulser

## General Description

The  MAX14807  dual,  high-voltage  (HV)  2.2A  analog pulser  generates  HV  arbitrary  waveforms  or  pulses  for driving  piezoelectric  transducers  in  ultrasound  systems, and requires no external transformer. The device features both  analog  and  digital  modes  of  operation.  In  analog mode, the device amplifies low-voltage differential analog signals to a high-voltage waveform up to 220V P-P  in the ultrasound  frequency  range.  In  digital  mode,  the  device generates  a  low-voltage  (LV)  continuous-wave  Doppler (CWD)  signal  or  a  trilevel  HV  pulse  from  low-voltage digital inputs.

The  MAX14807  features  a  gain-selectable  (28dB  or 40dB)  differential  amplifier  and  a  Class  AB  push-pull output stage for analog mode operation. The differential amplifier boosts the low-voltage differential signal to HV single-ended  signal.  The  bias  current  of  the  Class  AB output  stage  is  set  by  an  external  resistor.  The  device has a 25Ω active clamp to ensure a low-impedance path to GND as soon as the HV burst is over. The MAX14807 also features a trilevel digital transmitter for digital mode operation. The digital transmitter can be used in operating  modes  such  as  CWD,  color  flow  mode  (CFM),  and pulsed-wave Doppler (PWD) where pulse shaping is not required,  but  efficiency  and  phase  noise  are  the  main constraints.

A transmit/receive function allows the analog amplifier to enter a low-power mode during receive time to minimize power  consumption.  Transition  between  transmit  and receive  (and  vice  versa)  can  be  done  online  during  the vector acquisition. Output glitches during transmit/receive commutation are minimized. The MAX14807 features a power off mode to reduce power consumption. In power off mode, both the analog and digital transmitters are in high  impedance.  The  MAX14807  has  a  bilevel  thermal protection. When the die temperature exceeds the thresholds  (+120°C  or  +162°C  typ),  the  corresponding  opendrain output asserts.

The MAX14807 is available in a 64-pin (10mm x 10mm), TQFP  exposed-pad  package  and  is  specified  over  the -40°C to +85°C extended temperature range.

Click here to ask an associate for production status of specific part numbers.

MAX14807

## Applications

- Ultrasound Medical Imaging
- Cleaning Equipment
- Flaw Detection
- Piezoelectric Drivers
- Test Equipment

## Benefits and Features

- Saves Space-Optimized for High-Channel-Count Systems
- Dual Integrated Channels with Independent High-Voltage Supplies Eliminate the Need for External Transformers
- High Performance-Designed to Enhanced Image Quality
- 15MHz Power Bandwidth
- -54dB (typ) THD for Second and Third Harmonic at 5MHz (Analog Mode)
- Low-Phase Noise (-120dBc/Hz in Analog Mode, 156dBc/Hz in Digital Mode)
- Class AB Output Programmable Output Bias Current
- Analog Class AB Amplifier with 220V P-P  Capability
- Low-Power Modes Maximize System Power Savings
- RT\_ Feature Reduces Power Consumption in Analog Mode
- Programmable Output Stage Current in Analog Mode
- Digital Mode Available for Doppler Operative Modes

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

Typical Application Circuit appears at end of data sheet.

19-6482; Rev 0; 10/12

## MAX14807

## Notes

<!-- image -->

Dual, High-Voltage 2.2A Analog Pulser

Information furnished by Analog Devices is believed to be accurate and reliable. However, no responsibility is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its XseGLYPH&lt;c=17,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt; 6SeFL¿FDtLoQsGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt;sXEMeFtGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt;toGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt;FKDQJeGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt;ZLtKoXtGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt;QotLFeGLYPH&lt;c=17,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt;NoGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt;OLFeQseGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt;LsGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt;JUDQteGGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt;E\GLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt;LPSOLFDtLoQGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt;oUGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt;otKeUZLseGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt;XQGeUGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt;DQ\GLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt;SDteQtGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt; or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. $OOGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt;$QDOoJGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt; 'eYLFesGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt; SUoGXFtsGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt; FoQtDLQeGGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt;KeUeLQGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt;DUeGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt; sXEMeFtGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt; toGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt; UeOeDseGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt; DQGGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt; DYDLODELOLt\ GLYPH&lt;c=17,font=/UFIQHU+Arial-BoldMT&gt;

│

2