<!-- lastmod 2023-11-22 -->
<!-- image -->

## General Description

The MAX16610/MAX16610A family of ICs consists of highly integrated, scalable, controllers for a switched tank converter (STC)  topology.  The  STC  provides  highly  efficient  zero-current-switching  (ZCS)  voltage  conversion  from  a  60V-40V input  bus  to  an  intermediate  bus  voltage.  The  intermediate bus voltage is unregulated and is approximately a quarter of the input voltage.

The 4:1 STC topology has 10 FETs that need to be driven, with only three of the FETs connected to ground. The MAX16610/ MAX16610A family provides an extremely dense solution with integrated drivers and generation of floating supplies.

An adaptation algorithm tunes the STC on-times to maintain ZCS, regardless  of  variations  in  and  tolerances  of  the  STC components (e.g., temperature coefficient, aging, and voltage derating). With the adaptation algorithm, an STC controlled by a MAX16610/MAX16610A can use Class II capacitors in the resonant tanks to save on cost and improve efficiency compared to Class I capacitor designs.

Multiple fault protection features prevent damage to the STC converter and downstream components.

## Applications

Intermediate  Bus  Voltage  Generation  for  Datacenter  and Communications Systems Using 48V Architecture to Supply Voltage Regulators Powering:

- High-Power VR13.HC CPUs
- Machine Learning ASICs and Accelerator Cards
- Networking ASICs
- DDR Memory

Visit  Web Support to complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

Rev. 5

DOCUMENT FEEDBACK

## Data Sheet

## MAX16610/MAX16610A

## Switched Tank Converter (STC) Controllers with Integrated Drivers

## Benefits and Features

- High Density and Simplified Design
- Integrated Drivers for 10 FETs
- Integrated Floating Domains Generation
- Efficiency Optimization Regardless of Component Variation
- Adaptive On-Time Algorithm Ensures ZCS
- Support for Wide Range of Baseline Resonant Frequencies
- Higher Reliability
- Adaptive Algorithm Enforces a Minimum Off-Time
- Prevents Component Over-Stress and Excessive Peak Currents
- Protection Features
- Input Overcurrent Protection (Latching)
- Output Overvoltage Protection
- -Soar Mitigation and OVP
- Bias-Supply Undervoltage Protection
- Component Failure Protection
- Fault/Output Voltage Indicators
- -Critical Fault-Flag Output Pin
- -Power-Good Indicator

<!-- image -->