<!-- lastmod 2024-10-07 -->
<!-- image -->

## Low-Input-Voltage, Smart Power-Stage ICs with Integrated Current and Temperature Sensors

## General Description

The  MAX16625/MAX16627  are  feature-rich  low  input voltage  smart  power-stage  ICs  designed  to  work  with Analog Devices' controllers to implement a high -density multiphase voltage regulator. Multiple smart power-stage ICs plus a controller provide a compact synchronous buck converter that includes accurate individual phase current and  temperature  reporting  through  PMBus ™ .  These smart power-stage devices include fault-protection circuits for  overtemperature,  VX  short,  I/O  open/short,  supply undervoltage  lockout  (UVLO),  and  main  power-supply overvoltage lockout (OVLO). The MAX16625/MAX16627 immediately shut down on fault detection, communicating the Fault\_ID to the controller.

Monolithic integration and advanced packaging technology allow high-switching frequencies with significantly lower losses than conventional implementations. Phase  shedding and discontinuous conduction modes (DCM) optimize efficiency over a wide range of load currents.

The  MAX16625  is  available  in  a  standard  (3.25mm  x 7.4mm) 12-pin FC2QFN package, while the MAX16627 is in a narrow (3.05mm x 7.25mm) 12-pin FC2QFN package. Both packages have an exposed top-side thermal pad.

## Applications

- High-Current Multiphase-Voltage Regulators
- AI and Machine Learning ASICs
- Networking ASICs
- Graphics Processors
- Servers, Workstations, and Enterprise Storage
- Communications and Networking Equipment

## Typical Operating Circuit

<!-- image -->

MAX16625/MAX16627

## Benefits and Features

- Space-Optimized Solution
- Monolithic, Smart Power Stage
- Small Footprint: 22mm 2  or 24mm 2
- Peak Efficiency with 8-Phase, 600kHz, 4.5V V IN
- 95.4% at 1V V OUT
- 93.1% at 0.6V V OUT
- 300kHz to 1.3MHz Switching Frequency
- Telemetry and Fault Reporting through Controller IC PMBus
- Accurate Temperature Monitoring and Reporting
- Accurate per-Phase Current Reporting
- Fault\_ID Indicates Type of Fault
- SEL Input for Single-/Parallel-Mode Operation (MAX16625C/MAX16627C) or VX\_FAULT Output (MAX16625A/B, MAX16627A/B)
- Advanced Self-Protection Features
- Supply and Boost UVLO Protection
- Input Supply OVLO Protection
- Boost Refresh
- VX Short and Overtemperature Shutdown
- VX Open and Short Detection at Power-up
- Fast Overcurrent Protection
- I/O Open/Short Pin Startup Check

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

PMBus is a trademark of SMIF, Inc.

## Electrical and Thermal Ratings

| DESCRIPTION                  |   CURRENT RATING * (A) | INPUT VOLTAGE (V)   | OUTPUT VOLTAGE (V)   |
|------------------------------|------------------------|---------------------|----------------------|
| Electrical Rating**          |                     98 | 3 to 6              | 0.25 to 2.3          |
| Thermal Rating, T A = +55°C, |                     64 | 4.8                 | 1.0                  |
| 200LFM                       |                     66 | 4.8                 | 0.6                  |

*T J  = +125°C. For specific operating conditions, see SOA

curves in the Typical Operating Characteristics section.

**Maximum-phase  DC  current  limited  by  POCP  and FASTPOCP\_R typical values.

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

MAX16625/MAX16627

<!-- image -->

## Low-Input-Voltage, Smart Power-Stage ICs with Integrated Current and Temperature Sensors

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All Analog Devices products contained herein are subject to release and availability.