<!-- lastmod 2022-08-05 -->
## ABRIDGED DATA SHEET

MAX14676/MAX14676A

EVALUATION KIT AVAILABLE

Wearable Charge Management Solution

## General Description

The MAX14676/MAX14676A are battery-chargemanagement  solutions  ideal  for  low-power  wearable applications.  These  devices  include  a  linear  batterycharger with a Smart Power Selector™, ModelGauge™ fuel  gauge,  and  several  power-optimized  peripherals. They  feature  an  ultra-low-power  buck  regulator  with  a quiescent  current  of  900nA  (typical)  and  74%  efficiency with 10µA output.

The  battery  charger  features  Smart  Power  Selector operation,  allowing  operation  with  dead  battery.  It  limits input  current  based  on  a  register  setting.  If  the  charger power source is unable to supply the entire system load, the smart power control circuit will supplement the system load with current from the battery.

The MAX14676/MAX14676A embed a Maxim proprietary ModelGauge fuel gauge to provide an accurate estimate of the available capacity for rechargeable lithium batteries.

The MAX14676/MAX14676A include a synchronous highefficiency step-down converter. The device features a fixedfrequency  PWM  mode  for  tighter  regulation,  and  a  burst mode for increased efficiency during light-load operation.

The MAX14676/MAX14676A have a boost regulator and three  programmable  current  sinks  that  can  be  used  to drive a variety of LED configurations. The boost converter is  controlled  independently  from  the  current  sinks,  and they can be also used separately.

The MAX14676/MAX14676A feature a power switch controller that allows the device to be turned on and off by a pushbutton. This controller also provides a delayed reset signal and voltage sequencing.

These devices are available in a 42-bump, 0.5mm pitch, 3.497mm x 3.118mm wafer-level package (WLP).

Smart Power Selector and ModelGauge are trademarks of Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.

## Benefits and Features

- Extend System Use Time Between Battery Charging
- 1.8V Low-I Q  200mA Buck Regulator
- - 0.9μA (typ) Quiescent Current
-  - Automatic Burst or Forced-PWM Modes
- ModelGauge with Accurate State-of-Charge
- Easy-to-Implement Li+ Battery Charging
- Smart Power Selector
- 28V Tolerant Input
- Thermistor Monitor
- Minimize Power-Management Footprint though High Integration
- 3.2V Low-I Q  100mA LDO
- 2.0V Always-On 50μA LDO
-  +5V Safe Output LDO
- 6.6V Low-I Q 120μA Charge Pump
- Support a Wide Variety of Display Options
- 5V to 17V Output Boost Converter
- 3-Channel Adjustable High-Voltage Current Sinks
- Optimize System Control
- Pushbutton to Enable Ultra-Low-Power Mode and Power-On Voltage Sequencing
- I 2 C Control

## Applications

- Wearable Electronics
- GPS Watches
- Fitness Monitors
- Portable Medical Devices

Ordering Information/Selector Guide appears at end of data sheet.

<!-- image -->

## ABRIDGED DATA SHEET

## MAX14676/MAX14676A

## Typical Application Circuit

<!-- image -->

│

Wearable Charge Management Solution

## ABRIDGED DATA SHEET

MAX14676/MAX14676A

## Ordering Information/Selector Guide

| PART            | BUCK      | 3.2V LDO      |   STAY ON BIT DEFAULT* | BUMP-PACKAGE   |
|-----------------|-----------|---------------|------------------------|----------------|
| MAX14676 EWO+T  | Forced On | Forced On     |                      0 | 42 WLP         |
| MAX14676A EWO+T | Forced On | Off (default) |                      1 | 42 WLP         |

*See Table 29 for the StayOn bit default settings.

## Chip Information

PROCESS: BiCMOS

Wearable Charge Management Solution

│