<!-- lastmod 2023-11-22 -->
<!-- image -->

## General Description

The MAX14502 USB-to-SD™ card reader provides a means for portable devices that support full-speed USB communication  (12Mbps) with one or two SD card slots, upgrading the USB SD card reader function to USB high-speed (480Mbps) operation. The MAX14502 has two modes of operation: Pass Thru and Card Reader. In pass thru, the SD and USB signals pass through the MAX14502 without modification, appearing like the device is not present. The host microprocessor firmware does not need modification, as there is no change from the host microprocessor's perspective. In Card Reader mode, the  MAX14502  implements  a  high-speed  USB  card  reader that  operates  independently  of  the  host  microprocessor. All the capabilities of the full-speed USB port and SD card slot are preserved with the additional feature that allows a faster way for a PC to read or write to the SD card. The MAX14502 supports  high-capacity  SDHC  cards.  The  40-pin  TQFN  version supports one SD card, while the 56-bump wafer-level package (WLP) version supports two SD cards.

The  MAX14502  features  advanced  power-saving  modes to  reduce  power  consumption  in  portable  applications.  The low-power  sleep  modes  allow  the  ability  to  disable  internal circuit  blocks, providing power-saving operating modes. The default clock input for is specified in the ordering information. The MAX14502 features the option to change the default values using the I 2 C interface.

The MAX14502 is available in a 5mm x 5mm, 40-pin TQFN package.  This  device  operates  over  a  wide  supply  voltage range  and  is  specified  over  the  -40°C  to  +85°C  extended temperature range.

## Applications

- Cell Phones
- PDAs
- MP3 Players
- Digital Still Cameras
- GPS

SD is a trademark of the SD Card Association.

Visit  Web Support to complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

Rev. 3

DOCUMENT FEEDBACK

TECHNICAL SUPPORT

## Data Sheet

## MAX14502

## Hi-Speed USB-to-SD Card Readers with Bypass

## Benefits and Features

- USB 2.0 High-Speed and Full-Speed Compliant
- SDHC Card Support
- Internal High-Speed USB SD Card Reader Eases Host μP Overhead
- On-Chip Termination and Pullup Resistors
- Accommodates Clock Input Frequencies: 26MHz, 19.2MHz, 13MHz, and 12MHz
- Internal Clock Squarer for Low-Amplitude TCXO Signals
- No Power-Supply Sequencing Required
- Compatible with +1.8V to +3.3V I/O Host Microprocessor
- Simple Control Mode Requires Only a Single GPIO
- I 2 C Control Provides Multiple Configuration Options
- On-Chip Power-On Reset/Brown-Out Reset

<!-- image -->