<!-- lastmod 2024-02-19 -->
<!-- image -->

## 4x6 Smart Power-Stage IC with Integrated LDO, Current, and Temperature Sensors

## General Description

The MAX20846 is a feature-rich, smart power-stage IC designed  to  work  with  Analog  Devices'  controllers  to implement a high-density multiphase voltage regulator. Multiple smart power-stage ICs plus a controller provide a  compact  synchronous  buck  converter  that  includes accurate individual phase  current  and  temperature reporting through PMBus ™ .  These smart power-stage devices include fault-protection circuits for overtemperature, VX  short, I/O open/short, supply undervoltage  lockout  (UVLO),  and  main  power-supply overvoltage lockout (OVLO). The MAX20846 immediately shuts down on fault detection, communicating the Fault\_ID to the controller.

Monolithic integration and advanced packaging technology allow high-switching frequencies with significantly lower losses than conventional implementations.  Phase  shedding  and  discontinuous conduction  modes  (DCM)  optimize  efficiency  over  a wide range of load currents. The MAX20846 integrates an internal LDO simplifying bias generation for applications that do not have 1.8V available.

The MAX20846 is available in  a  4mm  x  6mm,  34-pin FC2QFN package.

## Applications

- High-Current Multiphase-Voltage Regulators
- VR13, VR13.HC, and VR14 CPU and Memory
- Networking ASICs
- AI and Machine Learning ASICs
- Graphics Processors
- Servers, Workstations, and Enterprise Storage
- Communications and Networking Equipment

## Typical Operating Circuit

<!-- image -->

## Benefits and Features

- Space-Optimized Solution
- Monolithic, Smart Power Stage
- Phase-Current Steering for Thermal Balance
- Small Footprint: 24mm 2
- 96.1% Peak Efficiency · 6-Phase, 400kHz, 12V V IN , 1.8V V OUT
- •
- 300kHz to 1.3MHz Switching Frequency
- Telemetry and Fault Reporting through Controller IC PMBus
- Accurate Temperature Monitoring and Reporting
- Accurate Per-Phase Current Reporting
- Fault\_ID Indicates Parallel Phase Fault Type
- Advanced Self-Protection Features*
- Supply and Boost UVLO Protection
- Input Supply OVLO Protection
- Boost Refresh
- VX Short and Overtemperature Shutdown
- VX Open and Short Detection at Power-Up
- Fast Overcurrent Protection
- Inductor Saturation Protection
- Open/Short Pin Detection During Startup

*Protection features vary with different part variants.

Ordering  Information  appears  at  the  end  of  data sheet.

PMBus is a trademark of SMIF, Inc.

## Electrical and Thermal Ratings

| DESCRIPTION                 |   CURRENT RATING* (A) | INPUT VOLTAGE (V)   | OUTPUT VOLTAGE (V)   |
|-----------------------------|-----------------------|---------------------|----------------------|
| Electrical Rating**         |                 104.5 | 4.5 to 16           | 0.25 to 5.8          |
| Thermal Rating T A = +55°C, |                  44   | 12                  | 1.8                  |
| 200LFM                      |                  47   | 12                  | 1.0                  |

MAX20846

MAX20846

<!-- image -->

## 4x6 Smart Power-Stage IC with Integrated LDO, Current, and Temperature Sensors

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.