<!-- lastmod 2025-11-14 -->
<!-- image -->

## 4x5 Smart Power-Stage IC with Integrated Current and Temperature Sensors

## General Description

The  MAX20844B/MAX20845B  is  a  feature-rich  smart power-stage  IC  designed  to  work  with  Analog  Devices controllers to implement a high-density multiphase voltage regulator. Multiple smart power-stage ICs plus a controller provide  a  compact  synchronous  buck  converter  that includes accurate individual phase current and temperature  reporting  through  PMBus ™ .  These  smart power-stage  devices  include  fault-protection  circuits  for overtemperature, VX short, I/O open/short, supply undervoltage  lockout  (UVLO),  and  main  power-supply overvoltage lockout (OVLO). The MAX20844B/ MAX20845B immediately  shut  down  on  fault  detection, communicating the Fault\_ID to the controller.

Monolithic integration and advanced packaging technology allow high-switching frequencies with significantly lower losses than conventional implementations. Phase  shedding and discontinuous conduction modes (DCM) optimize efficiency over a wide range  of  load  currents.  The  MAX20845B  integrates  an internal LDO simplifying bias generation for applications that do not have 1.8V available.

The MAX20844B/MAX20845B are available in a 30-pin FCLGA package thermal pad (4mm x 5mm).

## Applications

- Mid-Current Voltage Regulators
- VR13, VR13.HC, and VR14 CPU Low-Power Rails
- AI, GPUs Auxiliary Rails
- Servers, Workstations, and Enterprise Storage
- Communications and Networking Equipment

## Typical Operating Circuit

<!-- image -->

MAX20844B/MAX20845B

## Benefits and Features

- Space-Optimized Solution
- Monolithic, Smart Power Stage
- Integrated V CC  and V DD  Capacitors
- Phase-Current Steering for Thermal Balance
- Small Footprint: 20mm 2
- Peak Efficiency 1-Phase, 600kHz, 12V V IN
- 92.4% at 1V V OUT
- 95% at 1.8V V OUT
- 300kHz to 1.3MHz Switching Frequency
- Telemetry and Fault Reporting through Controller IC PMBus
- Accurate Temperature Monitoring and Reporting
- Accurate Per-Phase Current Reporting
- Fault\_ID Indicates Type of Fault
- Advanced Self-Protection Features*
- Supply and Boost UVLO Protection
- Input Supply OVLO Protection
- Boost Refresh
- VX Short and Overtemperature Shutdown
- VX Open and Short Detection at Power-up
- Fast Overcurrent Protection
- Inductor Saturation Protection
- Open/Short Pin Detection during Startup

*Protection features vary with different part variants

Ordering Information appears at the end of the data sheet.

## Electrical and Thermal Ratings

| DESCRIPTON                  |   CURRENT RATING* (A) | INPUT VOLTAGE (V)   | OUTPUT VOLTAGE (V)   |
|-----------------------------|-----------------------|---------------------|----------------------|
| Electrical Rating**         |                    70 | 4.5 to 16           | 0.25 to 5.8          |
| Thermal Rating T A = +55°C, |                    23 | 12                  | 1.8                  |
| 200LFM                      |                    25 | 12                  | 1.0                  |

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

MAX20844B/MAX20845B

<!-- image -->

## 4x5 Smart Power-Stage IC with Integrated Current and Temperature Sensors

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All Analog Devices products contained herein are subject to release and availability.