<!-- lastmod 2025-09-16 -->
<!-- image -->

MAX20438

## General Description

The MAX20438 is an ultra-high-efficiency switching regulator  that  delivers  up  to  12A  load  current  from  0.5V  to 1.2V. The IC operates from 2.5V to 5.5V, making it ideal for on-board, point-of-load (PoL) and post regulation applications. The total output error is less than ±1.0% over load, line, and temperature.

The MAX20438 features adaptive on-time with a switching frequency  of  2.1MHz  or  4.2MHz.  High-frequency  operation allows for small-size, all-ceramic capacitor design.

The low-resistance, on-chip switches ensure high efficiency  at  heavy  loads  while  minimizing  critical  inductances, making the layout a much simpler task with respect to discrete solutions.

The device features the MAXQ ®  power architecture which provides precision transient performance and phase margin.  This  allows  obtaining  the  maximum  power,  performance, and precision from the converter over a very wide range of configurations.

The output voltage is preset at the factory to allow customers  to  achieve  ±1%  output-voltage  accuracy  without using expensive 0.1% resistors. The device offers factoryprogrammable soft-start and RESET times.

The device includes overtemperature shutdown and overcurrent limiting. The MAX20438 is designed to operate in the -40°C to +125°C ambient temperature range.

## Applications

- Secondary Regulator for SoC/MCU Supply
- PoL and Post-Regulation Applications

## Ultra-High-Efficiency, Low-Voltage Buck Converter

## Benefits and Features

- High Feature Set in Ultra-Small Footprint
- High-Efficiency DC-DC Converter
- Up to 12A Output Current
- 2.5V to 5.5V Operating Supply Voltage
- Optional Factory-Preset Output Voltage
- 2.1MHz/4.2MHz Options
- Enable Input
- RESET Output
- Spread-Spectrum Option
- Adaptive On-Time
- 3mm x 3.5mm FCQFN
- High Precision
- 107%/93% OV/UV Monitor
- ±2% OV/UV Accuracy
- ±1% Output Voltage Accuracy
- Excellent Load Transient Performance
- Differential Remote Sense
- PWM and SKIP Mode Operation
- MAXQ Power Architecture
- Ultra-High Efficiency
- Up to 93% Efficiency 5V to 1V
- -40°C to +125°C Operating Temperature Range
- AEC-Q100 Qualified

## Simplified Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

MAXQ is a registered trademark of Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

19-101606; Rev 3; 7/25

© 2025 Analog Devices, Inc. All rights reserved. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

One  Analog  Way,  Wilmington,  MA  01887  U.S.A.  |  Tel:  781.329.4700  |  ©  2025  Analog  Devices,  Inc.  All  rights  reserved.

MAX20438

<!-- image -->

Ultra-High-Efficiency, Low-Voltage Buck Converter

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.