<!-- lastmod 2025-10-07 -->
<!-- image -->

## Four-Output Mini PMICs for Camera Applications

## General Description

The MAX25249C/MAX25249D are high-efficiency, fouroutput  PMICs  that  integrate  three  DC-DC  converters and a high-PSRR LDO, with OV/UV monitoring on all outputs. OUT1 is a 1A high-voltage synchronous stepdown converter operating from power over coax or car battery. The OUT2 and OUT3 low-voltage synchronous step-down converters operate from OUT1 and provide a 0.8V to 3.9875V output voltage range. OUT2 can deliver 1.2A for high-megapixel cameras and high-speed serializers. OUT3  can  deliver 1.2A to power the secondary  rails  of  the  imager,  serializer,  and  MCU. OUT4 is a low-voltage, low-noise, high-PSRR LDO for imager power. All buck converters achieve ±1.5% output voltage accuracy over load, line, and temperature range. Overvoltage and undervoltage faults are monitored with ±1.3% accuracy around the set voltage, and errors are communicated through RESET .

The  devices  feature  a  2.2MHz  fixed-frequency  PWM mode  for  better  noise  immunity  and  load-transient response. The high-frequency operation allows for the use  of  all  ceramic  capacitors  and  minimizes  external components. The programmable spread-spectrum frequency modulation minimizes radiated electromagnetic emissions. Integrated low-R DS(ON) switches  improve  efficiency  at  heavy  loads  and  make layout simpler than discrete solutions.  Sequencing through  the  use  of  EN23  and  EN4  pins  and  factorysettable output voltages increases flexibility for different image sensors and configurations. Other features include soft-start, overcurrent,  and  overtemperature protections. The MAX25249C/MAX25249D are compliant  with  ASIL  B  ratings  and  are  specified  for operation over the -40°C to +125°C automotive temperature range.

## Applications

- Surround-View Cameras
- Rear-View Cameras

MAX25249C/MAX25249D

## Benefits and Features

- Multiple Functions for Small Size
- 1A Synchronous High-Voltage Buck Converter
- -Input Voltage Range 5V to 36V
- -3V to 4V in 50mV Steps
- -5V Fixed Output Voltage
- Two Synchronous Low-Voltage Buck Converters
- -OUT2 and OUT3 Provide up to 1.2A
- -0.8V to 3.9875V in 12.5mV Steps
- LDO for Camera Sensor; 50dB at 1kHz
- 2.2MHz Operation
- RESET Output -Push Pull or Open Drain
- High Precision
- · ±1.5% Output Voltage Accuracy
- · ±1.3% OV/UV Monitoring Accuracy
- Diagnostics and Features
- ASIL B Compliant
- Redundant Reference
- Robust for the Automotive Environment
- Current-Mode, Forced-PWM Operation
- Overtemperature and Short-Circuit Protection
- 3.5mm x 3.5mm, 20-Pin TQFN
- -40°C to +125°C Grade 1 Automotive Temperature Range
- AEC-Q100 Qualified

## Simplified Block Diagram

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

<!-- image -->

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

MAX25249C/MAX25249D

## Four-Output Mini PMICs for Camera Applications

<!-- image -->

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All Analog Devices products contained herein are subject to release and availability.