<!-- lastmod 2023-01-31 -->
<!-- image -->

Evaluates: MAX20071/MAX20072

Click here to ask an associate for production status of specific part numbers.

## General Description

The  MAX20072  evaluation  kit  (EV  kit)  demonstrates the  performance  and  behavior  of  the  MAX20071  and MAX20072 low-voltage step-down switching regulators.

The MAX20072 high-efficiency switching regulator family  delivers  up  to  1A  load  current  from  0.5V  to 3.8V.  The  device  operates  from  2.7V  to  5.5V,  making it  ideal  for  on-board  point-of-load  and  post-regulation applications.  Total  output  error  is  less  than  ±1.5%  over load,  line,  and  temperature.  It  features  fixed-frequency PWM  mode  operation,  with  a  switching  frequency  of 2.2MHz.  The  high  operating  frequency  allows  for  allceramic  capacitor  design  and  other  small-size  external components.

The device provides an enable input (EN) and a powergood  output  (PG).  The  output  voltage  can  be  preset  at the  factory  to  allow  customers  to  achieve  ±1.5%  outputvoltage accuracy without using expensive 0.1% resistors. Alternatively,  the  output  voltage  can  be  set  to  any  cus -tomer value by using two external resistors at the feedback with  0.5V  internal  reference.  The  device  offers  factoryprogrammable  spread-spectrum  switching  and  soft-start time.

The MAX20072 includes overtemperature shutdown and overcurrent  limiting  and  is  designed  to  continuously operate from -40°C to +125°C chip temperature.

## Benefits and Features

- 2.7V to 5.5V Input Voltage Range
- 1.8V Output at 1A
- &lt; 1µA Quiescent Current in Shutdown Mode
- High-Frequency Operation
- 2.2MHz or External Clock Synchronization
- Compact System Size
- Full Solution with External Reference Divider Occupies Only 40mm 2

## MAX20072 Evaluation Kit

## Quick Start

## Required Equipment

- MAX20072 EV kit
- 5V, 1A power supply
- Electronic load
- Digital multimeter

## Procedure

The EV kit is fully assembled and tested. Follow the steps below to verify board operation:

- 1) Remove the shunt on jumper JU1 and place a shunt on jumper JU2.
- 2) Connect the power-supply (turned off) positive connection  to  VSUP  and  the  negative  connection  to GND (closest connection to VSUP).
- 3) Connect the electronic load (turned off) positive connection  to  VOUT  and  the  negative  connection  to GND (closest connection to VOUT).
- 4) Turn on the power supply at 5V, 1A current limit.
- 5) Place the shunt on jumper JU1.
- 6) Verify  that  the  voltage  across  the  output  capacitor  is 1.8V.
- 7) Activate  the  electronic  load  (for  either  1.8Ω  resistive load or 1A current load).
- 8) Verify  that  the  voltage  across  the  output  capacitor  is still 1.8V.

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

©

## Detailed Description

The MAX20072 EV kit comes fully assembled and tested. The EV kit comes installed with the MAX20072ATAA/V. Other  variants,  such  as  the  MAX20071,  can  be  tested on the same EV kit with IC replacement of U1. Testing a different  configuration  may  require  changes  to  external components for proper operation. Consult the MAX20071/ MAX20072 IC data sheet for guidance on selecting external components.

## Low-Voltage Step-Down Converter

The  step-down  converter  is  designed  to  operate  from 2.7V  to  5.5V  input  voltage.  The  output  is  regulated through either an external resistor-divider, or an internal reference preset at the factory. Fixed-output versions can be factory configured between 0.5V and 3.8V. The system has internal MOSFETs for reduced system footprint. The externally  adjustable  circuit  implementation  fits  inside  a 40mm 2  area.

Because  the  target  application  for  this  device  is  as  a secondary regulator, capacitors C5 and C6 emulate the output  capacitance  of  a  primary  regulator.  Their  values can be adjusted based on the expected characteristics of the primary regulator in a given application.

## EV Kit Interface

Header  JU1  connects  between  VSUP  and  the  EN  pin of  the  device  and  enables/disables  the  device's  output. Populate the jumper to enable the device, or remove the jumper to disable it. The device can also be enabled or disabled  by  applying  an  active-high  logic  voltage  on  the EN test loop. If EN is left open, the device is placed in a shutdown state due to a weak internal pulldown on the pin.

Header JU2 connects between VSUP and the SYNC pin of the device and controls whether the device is placed in forced-PWM mode or skip mode. Populate the jumper to place  the  device  into  forced-PWM  (FPWM)  mode  for  all load  levels.  Remove  the  jumper  to  enable  skip  mode  at low-load levels to improve efficiency.

Large test loops are installed on the EV kit for input/output power and grounds, as well as all digital signals. A smaller test  point  is  also  populated  at  a  10Ω  injection  resistor (R4) in the feedback network for phase and gain margin measurements.

## Synchronization (SYNC)

The  device has  the  ability  to  operate  in  either  FPWM or  skip  mode  of  operation.  The  SYNC  pin  has  a  weak internal  pulldown,  defaulting  to  skip-mode  operation. Populating header JU2 or applying a logic-high voltage to the SYNC test loop engages FPWM operation.

The  device can  also  synchronize  to  an  external  clock signal. Applying  a  square  wave  to  the  SYNC  test  loop, which  is  directly  connected  to  the  device's  SYNC  pin, causes  the  device's  MOSFETs  to  switch  at  the  applied frequency.  Valid  frequency  ranges  are  from  1.8MHz to  2.6MHz.  Switching  frequencies  towards  the  end  of this  range  may  require  changing  the  power  inductor  for proper operation. The device is also available with spread spectrum on the switching frequency.

## Power-Good Signal (PG)

The  device  provides  a  signal  to  determine  whether  or not  it  is  operating  in  normal  conditions.  An  open-drain FET  in  the  device  is  connected  to  the  PG  pin.  The  pin has  a  pullup  resistor  to  the  input  power  supply.  As  the pin is an open-drain FET, the unit can interface with other voltage  levels  if  desired.  The  pin  asserts  a  logic-low voltage if the device is either shut off or not operating in proper conditions. Output overvoltage/undervoltage, output overcurrent,  input  undervoltage,  and  overtemperature conditions are all flagged by this pin.

## PCB Layout Guidelines

Good PCB layout is critical for proper system performance. The  loop  area  of  the  DC-DC  conversion  circuitry  must be  minimized  as  much  as  possible.  Place  the  PV  input capacitor,  power  inductor,  and  output  capacitor  as  close as  possible  to  the  device .  PCB  trace  geometry  should prioritize shorter traces over wider traces. The EV kit layout is  designed  to  achieve  an  extremely  small  solution  size (less  than  40mm 2 area),  while  maintaining  good  DC-DC circuitry routing and grounding.

A  low-impedance  ground  connection  between  the  input and  output  capacitors  is  necessary  (route  through  the ground pour on the exposed pad). Connect the exposed pad  to  ground.  Place  multiple  vias  in  the  pad  and connect  them  to  all  other  ground  layers  for  optimal  heat dissipation (failure to do so may result in the device repeatedly  reaching  thermal  shutdown).  Do  not  use  separate power and analog grounds; use a single common ground, as  high-frequency  return  currents  flow  directly  under  the corresponding traces.

## Ordering Information

| PART           | TYPE   |
|----------------|--------|
| MAX20072EVKIT# | EV Kit |

# Denotes RoHS compliant.

## MAX20072 EV Kit Bill of Materials

| REFERENCE   | DESCRIPTION                                           | MFG. NUMBER               |
|-------------|-------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|
| C1          | Capacitor, ceramic, 22 µF, 10V, X6S, 0805 size        | Murata GRT21BC81A226ME13L |
| C2          | Capacitor, ceramic, 4.7 µF, 16 V, X6S, 10%, 0603 size | Murata GRT188C81C475KE13D |
| C3          | Capacitor, ceramic, 22 pF, 50 V, NP0, 0402 size       | Murata GCM1555C1H220JA16D |
| C4          | Capacitor, ceramic, 22 µF, 16 V, X7R, 1210 size       | Murata GCJ32ER71C226KE01L |
| C5          | Capacitor, electrolytic, 150 µF, 16 V, 20%, 6.3mm     | Panasonic EEE-FPC151XAP   |
| L1          | Inductor, molded, 2.2µH                               | TDK TFM252010ALMA2R2M     |
| R1          | Resistor, 20 kohm, 1%, 0402 size                      | any                       |
| R2          | Resistor, 15 kohm, 1%, 0402 size                      | any                       |
| R3          | Resistor, 39.2 kohm, 1%, 0402 size                    | any                       |
| R4          | Resistor, 10 ohm, 1%, 0402 size                       | any                       |
| U1          | Low-voltage step-down converter                       | MAX20072AATA/V+           |

Evaluates: MAX2071/MAX207

## MAX20072 Evaluation Kit

## MAX20072 EV Kit Schematic

<!-- image -->

## MAX20072 EV Kit PCB Layout Diagrams

Top Copper and Solder Mask

<!-- image -->

Bottom Copper and Solder Mask

<!-- image -->

Top Components and Labels

<!-- image -->

## Revision History

|   REVISION NUMBER | REVISION DATE   | DESCRIPTION                                                                           | PAGES CHANGED   |
|-------------------|-----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|
|                 0 | 11/16           | Initial release                                                                       | -               |
|                 1 | 5/18            | Updated C1, C3, C4, R1 and deleted C6 and R5 in the MAX20072 EV Kit Bill of Materials | 3               |

<!-- image -->

Information furnished by Analog Devices is believed to be accurate and reliable. However, no responsibility is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

Evaluates: MAX2071/MAX207