<!-- lastmod 2024-02-07 -->
<!-- image -->

MAX25503

## General Description

The  MAX25503  is  a  4  x  24-channel  modular  matrix driver.  The  integrated  current  outputs  can  sink  up  to 65mA LED current each. The source drive pins provide current  to  the  columns  of  the  matrix  on  a  multiplexed basis. Device power comes from an external 3.3V or 5V supply while the LED current-sink outputs can operate at up to 14V.

A  feedback  output  pin  (FB)  is  provided  to  control  an external DC-DC converter so that voltage headroom can be optimized and the overall system power dissipation reduced.

The device is highly flexible due to its programmability using  the  SPI  interface.  Among  the  programmable parameters are the LED  current, individual  PWM settings, and multiplex ratio.

The high-speed interface can be used to control up to 16 devices.

The  MAX25503  is  available  in  TQFN  and  TSSOP packages and operates in the -40°C to +125°C temperature range.

## Applications

- Central Information Displays
- Instrument Clusters
- Interior Lighting
- Exterior Rear Lighting

## 4 x 24 Automotive LED Matrix Driver

## Benefits and Features

- Flexible Configuration
- Programmable Multiplex Ratio between 4:1 and 1:1
- Integrated Column Drivers
- Programmable Dither for Enhanced Resolution
- Optional Individual Programmable Delays
- Optional Pseudorandom Spread Spectrum on Each Output
- 24 Row Drivers
- Up to 65mA Peak Output Current
- Very Narrow Minimum Current Pulse for Maximum Dimming Ratio
- Optional Ghosting Elimination
- Extensive Diagnostics
- Shorted or Open LEDs
- Programmable V LED  Overvoltage Detection with Flag
- Shorted SNK\_ or SRC\_ to GND
- ISET out of Range
- Thermal Warning/Shutdown
- FB Output to Control External DC-DC Converter
- High-Speed SPI Interface
- VSYNC Synchronization Input (Programmable Active High/Low)
- 48-Lead TQFN and TSSOP Packages
- AEC-Q100 Grade 1

Ordering Information

appears at end of data sheet.

19-101770; Rev 0; 12/23

<!-- image -->

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.