<!-- lastmod 2025-10-15 -->
<!-- image -->

MAX25320

## General Description

The MAX25320 is a high-efficiency dual switching regulator  which delivers up to 1A load current per output from 0.5V  to  1.59375V  in  6.25mV  steps  and  1.6V  to  3.6V  in 25mV steps. The IC operates from a 3.3V supply, making it ideal for on-board point-of-load and post regulation applications. Total output error is less than ±1% over load, line, and temperature.

The MAX25320 features fixed-frequency  PWM mode or SKIP  mode  operation  with  a  switching  frequency  of 2.1MHz. The high-frequency operation allows for an allceramic  capacitor  design  and  also  allows  for  small-size external components.

The device features the MAXQ ®  technology, which provides precision transient performance and phase margin. This allows obtaining the maximum power, performance, and precision from the converter over a very wide range of configurations.

The MAX25320 provides an enable input and output. The output voltage is preset at the factory to allow customers to achieve ±1% output-voltage accuracy without using expensive  0.1%  resistors.  The  device  offers  factory-programmable soft-start and RESET times.

The device includes overtemperature shutdown and overcurrent  limiting.  It  is  designed  to  operate  from  -40°C  to +125°C ambient temperature range.

## Applications

- Secondary Regulator for SoC/MCU Supply

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

MAXQ is a registered trademark of Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

19-101161; Rev 2; 8/25

© 2025 Analog Devices, Inc. All rights reserved. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

## ASIL D Compliant, Dual 1A

## Low-Voltage Buck Converter

## Benefits and Features

- High Feature Set in Small Footprint
- High-Efficiency, Dual 1A DC-DC Converters
- 3.3V Operating Supply Voltage
- Factory Preset Output Voltage
- 2.1MHz Switching Frequency
- Individual Enable Inputs
- RESET and INT Open-Drain Outputs
- Spread-Spectrum Oscillator
- I 2 C Interface
- Peak Current Mode Architecture
- PWM and SKIP Mode Operation
- 4mm x 4mm, 20-Pin TQFN
- High Precision
- ±1% OV/UV Accuracy
- ±1% Output Voltage Accuracy
- Excellent Load Transient Performance
- MAXQ Power Architecture
- ASIL D Compliant
- Redundant Reference
- BIST Diagnostics
- PEC on I 2 C
- Programmable OV/UV Thresholds
- High Efficiency
- Up to 91% Efficiency 3.3V to 1.8V
- Up to 85% Efficiency 3.3V to 0.825V
- -40°C to +125°C Operating Temperature Range
- AEC-Q100 Qualified

## Simplified Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

MAX25320

<!-- image -->

ASIL D Compliant, Dual 1A Low-Voltage Buck Converter

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.