<!-- lastmod 2025-06-16 -->
<!-- image -->

## Four-/Three-Output Mini PMICs for Safety Applications

## General Description

The MAX20431B/MAX20432B are high-efficiency, four-/ three-output DC-DC converters with a windowed watchdog.  The  OUT1  is  a  synchronous  step-down converter that converts vehicle battery voltage to 3.3V at up to 2.5A. The OUT3 boosts the OUT1 to 5V at up to 500mA, while the OUT2/OUT4 (MAX20431B) or OUT2 (MAX20432B) low-voltage synchronous step-down converters  operate  from  OUT1  and  provide  a  0.5V  to 3.6875V output voltage range at up to 3A. All outputs achieve ±1.5% output error over load, line, and temperature range.

The  devices  feature  a  2.1MHz  fixed-frequency  PWM mode for all DC-DC outputs for better noise immunity and  load-transient  response.  The  2.1MHz  frequency operation allows for the use of all ceramic capacitors and minimizes the external components. The programmable spread-spectrum  frequency  modulation  minimizes  the radiated electromagnetic emissions. Integrated low RDSON switches improve efficiency at heavy loads and make the layout much simpler with respect to discrete solutions.

The  devices  features  the  MAXQ ®   power  architecture, which  provides  precision  transient  performance  and phase  margin.  This  allows  to  obtain  the  maximum power,  performance,  and  precision  while  minimizing system cost for any specific application.

The  devices  are  offered  with  factory-preset output voltages. Other features include soft-start, overcurrent, and overtemperature protection.

## Applications

- Advanced Driver-Assistance Systems (ADAS)

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

MAX20431B/MAX20432B

## Benefits and Features

- Multiple Functions for Small Size
- Synchronous High-Voltage Buck Converter up to 2.5A
- -Input Voltage Range 3.5V to 40V
- -Output Voltage of 3.3V
- 5V Synchronous 500mA Boost Converter
- Dual (MAX20431B)/Single (MAX20432B) Synchronous Buck Converters up to 3A
- -0.5V to 3.6875V in 12.5mV Steps
- Flexible Power Sequencer
- Programmable Challenge/Response or Windowed Watchdog
- Two Free Programmable UV/OV Voltage Monitors
- -0.8V to 3.9875V in 12.5mV Steps
- I 2 C Fast-Mode Plus Compatible Interface with Packet Error-Checking Option (PEC)
- 2.1MHz Internal Operation with Spread-Spectrum Option
- RESET Output
- Current-Mode, Forced-PWM Operation
- High-Precision for ASIL Applications
- ±1.5% Output Voltage Accuracy
- ±1% OV/UV Monitoring
- MAXQ Power Architecture
- Diagnostics and Redundant Circuits
- ASIL C Compliant
- Redundant Reference
- BIST Diagnostics
- Fail-Safe on Open Pins
- Shorted Pin Detection on RESET
- Mount ID Location Detection
- Robust for the Automotive Environment
- Overtemperature and Short-Circuit Protection
- 5mm x 5mm, Side-Wettable TQFN Package
- -40°C to +125°C Grade 1 Automotive Temperature Range

## Simplified Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

MAX20431B/MAX20432B

<!-- image -->

## Four-/Three-Output Mini PMICs for Safety Applications

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All Analog Devices products contained herein are subject to release and availability.