<!-- lastmod 2025-06-16 -->
<!-- image -->

## Automotive High-Efficiency Single 16A/22A/30A/40A Step-Down Converter Family

## General Description

The MAX20411 is a family of high-efficiency, synchronous step-down converters that operate with a 3.0V to 5.5V input voltage range and supply a 0.5V to 1.275V  output  voltage  range.  The  wide  input/output voltage range and the ability to provide up to 40A peak output current make this device family ideal for on-board point-of-load and post-regulation applications. The MAX20411 achieves as low as ±0.75% output error over load, line, and temperature ranges.

The  MAX20411  features  a  2.1MHz  fixed-frequency PWM mode for better noise immunity and load-transient response. The 2.1MHz frequency operation allows for the use of all ceramic capacitors and minimizes external components. The spread-spectrum frequency modulation  option  minimizes  radiated  electromagnetic emissions.  Integrated  low  R DS(ON)   switches  improve efficiency at heavy loads and make layout simpler than discrete solutions.

This  device  features  the  MAXQ ®   power  architecture, which  provides  precision  transient  performance  and phase  margin.  This  allows  obtaining  the  maximum power,  performance,  and  precision  while  minimizing system cost for any specific application.

The MAX20411 is offered with a factory-preset output voltage. (See the Ordering Information table for options.) The I 2 C interface supports dynamic voltage adjustment with  programmable  slew  rates.  Other  features  include programmable soft-start and overtemperature protections.

## Applications

- Automotive ADAS Systems
- SoC Core Power

MAXQ is a registered trademark of Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.

## Benefits and Features

- High-Efficiency DC-DC Converter
- Up to 40A Peak Output Current
- MAX20411A: 16A
- MAX20411B: 22A
- MAX20411C: 30A
- MAX20411D: 40A
- Differential Remote Voltage Sensing
- 3.0V to 5.5V Operating Supply Voltage
- I 2 C-Controlled Output Voltage
- 0.5V to 1.275V in 6.25mV Steps
- Excellent Load-Transient Performance
- Advanced Programmable Compensation
- MAXQ Power Architecture
- Hybrid Load Line and Integrator Options
- 2.1MHz or 1.05MHz Operation
- As Low as ±0.75% Output Voltage Accuracy
- RESET Output
- Current-Mode, Forced-PWM Operation
- ASIL D Compliant
- Redundant Reference
- BIST Diagnostics
- PEC on I 2 C
- Programmable OV/UV with ±1% Accuracy
- Overtemperature and Short-Circuit Protection
- 3.5mm x 5mm, 21-Pin, Side-Wettable FCQFN
- AEC-Q100 Qualified
- -40°C to +125°C Grade 1 Temperature Range

## Simplified Block Diagram

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

<!-- image -->

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

MAX20411

MAX20411

<!-- image -->

## Automotive High-Efficiency Single

## 16A/22A/30A/40A Step-Down Converter Family

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All Analog Devices products contained herein are subject to release and availability.