<!-- lastmod 2024-05-17 -->
<!-- image -->

MAX25252

## General Description

The  MAX25252  is  a  high-efficiency,  five-output  ASIL  B PMIC with three DC-DC converters, and two high-PSRR LDOs, with OV/UV monitoring on all outputs. OUT1 is a 1A high-voltage, synchronous step-down converter operating  from  power  over  coax.  OUT2  and  OUT3  are  low voltage synchronous step-down converters and provide a 0.75V to 3.9375V output voltage range. OUT2 and OUT3 can deliver  up  to  1.7A  current  respectively  for  the  highmegapixel cameras and high-speed serializers. LDO4 and LDO5 deliver up to 0.4A and 0.9A of current to power the secondary rails of the imager and a serializer. All outputs achieve ±1.5% output accuracy over load, line, and temperature  range.  Overvoltage  and  undervoltage  for  each output are monitored and their statuses are communicated through RESET and I 2 C.

The device features temperature monitoring with external NTC. The IC accurately measures PCB temperature and flags the temperature warning through RESET.

The  device  features  a  2.1MHz  fixed-frequency  PWM mode  for  better  noise  immunity  and  load  transient  response. The 2.1MHz frequency operation allows for the use of all ceramic capacitors and minimizes external components. The programmable spread-spectrum frequency modulation minimizes radiated electromagnetic emissions.

The I 2 C  programmable  output  voltages  and  sequencing increases flexibility  for  different  image  sensors  and  configurations. Other features include soft-start, overcurrent, and overtemperature protections.

## Applications

- Surround-View Cameras
- Rear-View Cameras
- Side-View Cameras
- Forward-Looking Cameras

## Five-Output ASIL B PMIC with Accurate Temperature Monitoring for Next-Generation Camera Sensors

## Benefits and Features

- Multiple Functions for Small Size
- 1A Synchronous High-Voltage Buck Converter
- Input Voltage Range 3.5V to 22V
- 2.5V to 5V Output Voltage in 100mV Steps
- Two Synchronous Low-Voltage Buck Converters
- Delivers up to 1.7A Current
- 0.75V to 3.9375V Output Voltage in 12.5mV Steps
- High-PSRR, Low-Voltage LDO for Camera Sensor
- Delivers up to 0.4A Current
- 0.75V to 3.9375V Output Voltage in 12.5mV Steps
- Low-Voltage LDO
- Delivers up to 0.9A Current
- 0.75V to 3.9375V Output Voltage in 12.5mV Steps
- 2.1MHz Operation
- RESET Output for OV/UV Detection and Other Diagnostics
- SUP Voltage OV/UV Indication
- High Precision for ASIL B Applications
- ±1.5% Output Voltage Accuracy (OUT1-OUT5)
- ±1% OV/UV Monitoring Accuracy
- High-Precision Temperature Monitoring
- 12-Bit ADC for Accurate Board Temperature
- ±0.096% Voltage Measurement Accuracy
- Robust for the Automotive Environment
- ASIL B Compliant
- Current-Mode, Forced-PWM Operation
- Overtemperature and Short-Circuit Protection
- 5mm x 5mm, 28-Pin Side-Wettable TQFN
- -40°C to +125°C Automotive Temperature Range
- AEC-Q100 Qualified

## Simplified Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

## Five-Output ASIL B PMIC with Accurate Temperature Monitoring for Next-Generation Camera Sensors

MAX25252

<!-- image -->

## Five-Output ASIL B PMIC with Accurate Temperature Monitoring for Next-Generation Camera Sensors

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.