<!-- lastmod 2025-12-10 -->
<!-- image -->

## Four- to Seven-Input Automotive PowerSystem Monitor Family

## General Description

The  MAX20480  is  a  complete  ASIL-compliant  SoC power-system monitor with up to seven voltage monitor inputs. Each input has programmable OV/UV thresholds of between 2.5% and 10% with ±1% accuracy. Two of the inputs have a separate remote ground-sense input and support DVS through the integrated I 2 C interface.

The MAX20480 contains a programmable flexible power sequence recorder (FPSR). This recorder stores powerup and power-down timestamps separately, and supports  on/  off  and  sleep/standby  power  sequences. The MAX20480 also contains a programmable challenge/response watchdog, which is accessible through  the  I 2 C  interface,  along  with  a  configurable RESET output.

The  MAX20480  improves  reliability  while  significantly reducing system size and component count as compared to separate ICs or discrete components. The MAX20480 meets ASIL D reliability when used with a supervisory controller. The device is designed to operate over the ambient temperature range of -40°C to +125°C.

## Applications

- ADAS
- Autonomous Driving Processing Systems
- Remote Sensor Modules
- Power System Supervision and MCU/SoC Monitoring

## Benefits and Features

- Small Solution
- 2.35V to 5.50V Operating Supply Voltage
- Only One External Component Required
- 150μA Operating Current
- 8μA Power -Down Mode
- High Precision
- Selectable 102.5% to 110% OV Monitors
- Selectable 97.5% to 90% UV Monitors
- ±1% Accuracy over Entire Temperature Range
- ±0.8% Accuracy from -10°C to +105°C
- 0.5% Step Size
- ASIL D Compliance
- Highly Integrated
- Five Fixed-Voltage Monitoring Inputs
- Two Differential DVS Tracking-Voltage Monitoring Inputs with Remote-Ground Sense
- Power-Sequencing Recording
- Simple or Challenge/Response Windowed Watchdog
- Fault Recording
- CRC on I 2 C Interface
- Programmable I 2 C Address
- OTP Configuration with Error-Correcting Code and Reload Functionality
- Programmable RESET Pin
- 16-Pin,  Side-Wettable  TQFN  with  Exposed  Pad (3mm x 3mm)
- AEC-Q100 Qualified
- -40°C to +125°C Operating Temperature

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

MAX20480

## Simplified Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

MAX20480

<!-- image -->

## Four- to Seven-Input Automotive Power-System Monitor Family

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All Analog Devices products contained herein are subject to release and availability.