<!-- lastmod 2025-01-10 -->
<!-- image -->

MAX20011

## General Description

The MAX20011 is a family of high-efficiency, synchronous step-down converters that operate with a 3.0V to 5.5V input voltage range and supply a 0.5V to 1.275V output voltage range. The wide input/output voltage range and the ability to provide up to 12A peak output current make this device  family  ideal  for  on-board  point-of-load  and  postregulation  applications.  The  MAX20011  achieves  ±1.5% output error over load, line, and temperature ranges.

The MAX20011 features a 2.2MHz fixed-frequency PWM mode  for  better  noise  immunity  and  load-transient  response. The 2.2MHz frequency operation allows for the use of all ceramic capacitors and minimizes external components. The spread-spectrum frequency modulation option  minimizes  radiated  electromagnetic  emissions.  Integrated low R DS(ON)  switches improve efficiency at heavy loads and make layout simpler than discrete solutions.

The MAX20011 is offered with factory-preset output voltage. See the Ordering Information table for options. The I 2 C  interface  supports  dynamic  voltage  adjustment  with programmable  slew  rates.  Other  features  include  programmable  soft-start,  overcurrent,  and  overtemperature protections.

## Applications

- Automotive ADAS Systems
- SoC Core Power

## Simplified Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

19-100515; Rev 10; 12/24

© 2024 Analog Devices, Inc. All rights reserved. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

One  Analog  Way,  Wilmington,  MA  01887  U.S.A.  |  Tel:  781.329.4700  |  ©  2024  Analog  Devices,  Inc.  All  rights  reserved.

## Automotive Single 8A/12A Step-Down Converter Family

## Benefits and Features

- High-Efficiency DC-DC Converter
- Up to 12A Peak Output Current
- MAX20011A: 8A
- MAX20011B: 12A
- Differential Remote Voltage Sensing
- 3.0V to 5.5V Operating Supply Voltage
- I 2 C-Controlled Output Voltage: 0.5V to 1.275V in 6.25mV Steps
- Excellent Load-Transient Performance
- Programmable Compensation
- 2.2MHz or 1.1MHz Operation
- ±1.5% Output-Voltage Accuracy
- RESET Output
- Current-Mode, Forced-PWM Operation
- ASIL C Compliant
- Redundant Reference
- BIST Diagnostics
- PEC on I 2 C
- Programmable OV/UV with ±1% Accuracy
- Overtemperature and Short-Circuit Protection
- 3.5mm x 3.75mm, 17-Pin Side-Wettable FC2QFN
- -40°C to +125°C Grade 1 Automotive Temperature Range

MAX20011

<!-- image -->

## Automotive Single 8A/12A Step-Down Converter Family

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.