<!-- lastmod 2026-01-29 -->
<!-- image -->

## MAX20479

## General Description

The MAX20479 is a complete ASIL B-compliant systemon-a-chip (SoC) voltage monitor with two or three voltage monitor inputs. Inputs 1 and 2 can be configured to monitor a voltage between 0.5V and 3.6875V in 12.5mV steps, while input 3 can be configured to monitor a voltage between 0.5V to 5.6V in 20mV steps. Each input has programmable OV/UV thresholds of between 2.5% and 10% with ±0.8% accuracy. The MAX20479 also contains a programmable windowed watchdog.

The  MAX20479  significantly  reduces  system  size  and component count while improving reliability, compared to separate ICs or discrete components. The device is designed to operate over the ambient temperature range of -40°C to +125°C.

## Applications

- Advanced Driver-Assistance Systems
- Autonomous Driving Processing Systems
- Remote Sensor Modules
- Power System Supervision and Microcontroller Unit/ System-on-a-Chip Monitoring

## Two/Three-Input Automotive Voltage Monitor with Watchdog

## Benefits and Features

- Small Solution
- 2.35V to 5.50V Operating Supply Voltage
- Only One External Component Required
- 125µA Operating Current
- High Precision
- Selectable 102.5% to 110% OV Monitors
- Selectable 97.5% to 90% UV Monitors
- ±0.8% Accuracy
- 0.5% Step Size
- ASIL B Compliance
- Highly Integrated
- MAX20479A/C - Two Voltage Monitoring Inputs
- MAX20479B/D - Three Voltage Monitoring Inputs
- Windowed Watchdog
- OTP Configuration with Error-Correcting Code
- Programmable RESET1 and RESET2 Pins
- 10-Pin, Side-Wettable TDFN with Exposed Pad (3mm x 3mm) (Two Different Package Options)
- AEC-Q100 Qualified
- -40°C to +125°C Operating Temperature

## Simplified Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

19-101811; Rev 6; 11/25

© 2025 Analog Devices, Inc. All rights reserved. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

MAX20479

<!-- image -->

Two/Three-Input Automotive Voltage Monitor with Watchdog

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.