<!-- lastmod 2026-03-03 -->
<!-- image -->

MAX20419

## General Description

The MAX20419 is a high-efficiency, 3-output, low-voltage DC-DC converter IC. OUT1 boosts the input supply to 5V at  up  to  750mA,  while  two  synchronous step-down converters operate from a 3.0V to 5.5V input voltage range and provide a 0.8V to 3.8V output voltage range at up to 3.6A. The boost converter achieves ±1.9% and the buck converters achieve ±1.4% output error over load, line, and temperature  range.  The  IC  features  a  2.2MHz  fixed-frequency  pulse-width  modulation  (PWM)  mode  for  better noise immunity and load-transient response, and a pulsefrequency-modulation mode (skip) for increased efficiency during light-load operation. The 2.2MHz frequency operation allows the use of all-ceramic capacitors and minimizes external components. The programmable spreadspectrum frequency modulation minimizes radiated electromagnetic emissions. Integrated low R DS(ON)  switches improve efficiency at heavy loads, and make the layout a much simpler task with respect to discrete solutions.

The IC is offered with factory-preset output voltages (see the Ordering Information/Selector Guide for available options).  Other features include soft-start, overcurrent, and overtemperature  protections.  The  MAX20419  also  has several redundancy and diagnostic features for compatibility with ASIL-rated applications.

## Applications

- Advanced Driver-Assistance Systems (ADAS)
- Infotainment
- SoC Power

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

True Shutdown is a trademark of Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.

Ordering Information/Selector Guide appears at end of data sheet.

19-100255; Rev 16; 9/25

© 202 5 Analog Devices, Inc. All rights reserved. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

One  Analog  Way,  Wilmington,  MA  01887  U.S.A.  |  Tel:  781.329.4700  |  ©  202 5 Analog  Devices,  Inc.  All  rights  reserved.

## High-Efficiency, 3-Output, Low-Voltage DC-DC Converter

## Benefits and Features

- Multiple Functions for Small Size
- Synchronous 750mA Boost Converter
- Fixed at 5V Output
- Dual Synchronous Buck Converters up to 3.6A
- Factory Configurable from 0.8V to 3.8V in 25mV Steps
- Programmable Windowed Watchdog
- 3.0V to 5.5V Operating Supply Voltage
- 2.2MHz Operation
- Individual RESET\_ Outputs
- High-Precision Performance
- ±1.9% Output-Voltage Accuracy (OUT1) and ±1.4% Output-Voltage Accuracy (OUT2, OUT3)
- ±1.3% OV/UV Monitoring (OUT1-OUT3, PV)
- Excellent Load-Transient Performance
- Diagnostics and Redundant Circuits
- ASIL C Compliant
- Redundant Reference
- Fail Safe on Open Pins
- Shorted Pin Detection on RESET1-RESET3
- Input Overvoltage Detection
- Robust for the Automotive Environment
- Current Mode, Forced-PWM, and Skip Operation
- Overtemperature and Short-Circuit Protection
- 24-Pin (4mm x 4mm) TQFN with Exposed Pad
- -40°C to +125°C Automotive Temperature Range

## Typical Operating Circuit

<!-- image -->

MAX20419

<!-- image -->

## High-Efficiency, 3-Output, Low-Voltage DC-DC Converter

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.