<!-- lastmod 2025-07-04 -->
<!-- image -->

## 38-Channel Local Dimming LED Driver

## General Description

The  MAX25588  is  a  38-channel  low-side  driver.  The integrated  current  outputs  can  sink  up  to  40mA  LED current  each.  Device  power  comes  from  an  external 3.3V or 5V supply, while the LED current-sink outputs can operate at up to 14V.

A  feedback  output  pin  (FB)  is  provided  to  control  an external DC-DC converter so that voltage headroom can be optimized and the overall system power dissipation reduced.

The device is highly flexible due to its programmability using  the  SPI  interface.  Among  the  programmable parameters  are  the  LED  current  and  individual  PWM settings.

The device features a high-speed interface for controlling up to 61 devices in a daisy-chain configuration. In addition, they include multiple diagnostic features.

The  MAX25588  is  available  in  a  TQFN  package  and operates in the -40°C to +125°C temperature range.

## Applications

- Central Information Displays
- Instrument Clusters
- Interior Lighting
- Exterior Rear Lighting

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

19-101935; Rev 1; 7/25

## Benefits and Features

- Flexible Configuration
- Optional Individual Programmable Delays
- Optional Pseudorandom Spread Spectrum on Each Output
- 38 Low-Side Constant-Current Drivers
- Up to 40mA Peak Output Current
- 0.25V Minimum SNK\_ Voltage Headroom
- Very Narrow Minimum Current Pulse for Maximum Dimming Ratio
- Extensive Diagnostics
- LED Integrity Test
- Shorted or Open LEDs
- Shorted SNK\_ to GND
- Undervoltage Detection on All Supplies, Overvoltage Detection on V18
- Thermal Warning/Shutdown
- FB Output to Control External DC-DC Converter
- Industry-Standard SPI Interface
- VSYNC Synchronization Input (Programmable Active High/Low)
- 7mm x 7mm, 48-Pin TQFN Package
- AEC-Q100 Grade 1

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

MAX25588

## MAX25588

## Simplified Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All Analog Devices products contained herein are subject to release and availability.