<!-- lastmod 2024-11-25 -->
<!-- image -->

## Eight-Output ASIL D PMIC

## General Description

The MAX25229 is a high-efficiency, eight-output, lowvoltage  PMIC.  OUT1 is  a  1.6A  boost  converter  which can  boost  a  3.3V  input  supply  to  5V  at  up  to  500mA output current, while four synchronous step-down converters provide an output voltage range of 0.5V to 2.0V  at  up  to  4A  for  1-phase  and  8A  for  2-phase operation. Three 600mA PMOS LDOs operate from an input  voltage  range  of  2.7V  to  5.5V  and  provide  an output voltage of 0.5V to 3.68V. All DC-DC converters achieve ±1% DC accuracy over load, line, and temperature range, while the  LDOs  achieve  ±3% AC+DC accuracy.

This  device  features  a  2.1MHz  fixed-frequency  PWM mode  for  better  noise  immunity  and  load-transient response. The high switching frequency operation allows for the use of all ceramic capacitors  and minimizes external components. The spread-spectrum frequency modulation minimizes radiated electromagnetic  emissions.  Integrated  low  RDS(ON) switches improve efficiency at heavy loads and simplify the layout with respect to discrete solutions.  The MAXQ ™ architecture minimizes output capacitance for each output by individually optimizing each output for the application requirements and eliminating process variations that reduce performance.

The device is offered with factory-preset output voltages. See the Ordering Information table for options.

## Key Applications

- Domain ECU
- Advanced Driver-Assistance Systems

## Benefits and Features

- Multiple Functions for Small Size
- Synchronous 5V Boost Converter
- -Up to 700mA Output Current
- Four 4A Buck Converters
- -OUT2 -4: 0.5V to 2.0V
- -OUT5: 0.5V to 3.3V
- -Supports Dual-Phase Operation
- Three 600mA PMOS LDOs
- -Can Be Configured as Voltage Monitors
- Five Programmable GPIO Pins
- Challenge-Response Watchdog
- I 2 C Fast-mode Plus-Compatible Interface
- 2.1MHz Internal Operation with Spread Spectrum
- High-Precision Performance
- ±1% Output Voltage Accuracy
- ±1% OV/UV Monitoring
- Excellent Load-Transient Performance
- MAXQ ™ Architecture
- Diagnostics and Redundant Circuits
- ASIL D Compliant
- Redundant Reference
- Fail Safe on Open Pins
- Packet Error Checking (PEC) on I 2 C
- Shorted Pin Detection on RESET
- AV Supply OV/UV Monitor
- Robust for the Automotive Environment
- Current-Mode, Forced-PWM Operation
- Overtemperature and Short-Circuit Protection
- 5mm x 5mm, 29-Pin FCQFN
- -40°C to +125°C Grade 1 Automotive Temperature Range

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

19-101882; Rev 0; 9/24

MAX25229

<!-- image -->

## Eight-Output ASIL D PMIC

## Simplified Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

MAX25229

<!-- image -->

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All Analog Devices products contained herein are subject to release and availability.