<!-- lastmod 2025-10-01 -->
<!-- image -->

## Three- to Five-Input Power-System Monitor with Clock Monitor and Watchdog

## General Description

The MAX20484 is a complete ASIL D compliant SoC power  system  monitor  with  up  to  five  voltage  monitor inputs. Each input has programmable OV/UV thresholds of between 2.5% and 10% with ±0.8% accuracy.

The MAX20484 contains a programmable flexible power sequence recorder (FPSR). This recorder stores powerup and power-down timestamps separately, and supports  on/  off  and  sleep/standby  power  sequences. The MAX20484 also contains a programmable challenge/response watchdog, which is accessible through  the  I 2 C  interface,  and  an  external  clock/fault monitor along with two configurable RESET outputs.

The MAX20484 significantly reduces  system size  and component count while improving reliability, as compared to separate ICs or discrete components. The MAX20484 meets ASIL D reliability when used with a supervisory controller. The device is designed to operate over the ambient temperature range of -40°C to +125°C.

## Applications

- ADAS
- Autonomous Driving Processing Systems
- Remote Sensor Modules
- Power System Supervision and MCU/SoC Monitoring

## Benefits and Features

- Small Solution
- 2.35V to 5.60V Operating Supply Voltage
- Only One External Component Required
- 150µA Operating Current
- 8µA Power-Down Mode
- Universal Channel Configurations
- High Precision
- Selectable 102.5% to 110% OV Monitors
- Selectable 97.5% to 90% UV Monitors
- ±0.8% Accuracy with 0.5% Step Size
- ASIL D Compliance
- Highly Integrated
- Five Fixed-Voltage Monitoring Inputs
- Clock/Fault Monitor Input (25kHz to 50MHz)
- Power-Sequencing Recording
- Simple or Challenge/Response Windowed Watchdog
- Fault Recording
- CRC on I 2 C Interface
- Programmable I 2 C Address
- OTP Configuration with Error-Correcting Code and Reload Functionality
- Two Independently Programmable RESET Pins
- 3mm x 3mm, 16-Pin, Side-Wettable TQFN-EP
- AEC-Q100 Qualified
- -40°C to +125°C Operating Temperature

## Simplified Application Diagram

<!-- image -->

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

MAX20484

MAX20484

<!-- image -->

## Three- to Five-Input Power-System Monitor with Clock Monitor and Watchdog

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All Analog Devices products contained herein are subject to release and availability.