<!-- lastmod 2025-02-14 -->
<!-- image -->

## Automotive Low-Noise Synchronous Buck-Boost Converter

## General Description

The  MAX25660  is  a  small,  synchronous,  buck-boost converter  with  integrated  H-bridge  switches.  This  IC provides a fixed-output regulation voltage and an externally adjustable output voltage in the 2.75V to 14V range with an input voltage above, below, or equal to the output  regulation  voltage.  The  MAX25660AFFA has  a 9A (typ) input current limit, while the  MAX25660AFFB has a 10.8A (typ) input current limit. Both versions can support  continuous  load  currents  up  to  6A,  which depends on the input-to-output voltage ratio and operating  frequency.  It  also  has  a  wide  input  voltage range of 3.6V to 36V. The MAX25660 features automatic loop bandwidth adjustment that automatically changes the  loop  bandwidth,  which  depends  on  the  operating mode. This allows for a very fast transient response time when  in  Buck  mode,  which  reduces  audible  noise caused by large changes in the load.

The  MAX25660  has  two  switching  frequency  options: 2.1MHz  and  400kHz.  The  2.1MHz  high  switching frequency  allows  for  small  external  components  and reduced  output  ripple,  and  guarantees  no  AM  band interference,  while  the  400kHz  switching  frequency offers better efficiency and relieves the power consumption  concern.  The  IC  also  includes  spreadspectrum frequency modulation to minimize electromagnetic interference (EMI).

The MAX25660  features a power-good  (PGOOD) indicator, undervoltage lockout, overvoltage protection, cycle-by-cycle current limit, and thermal shutdown. The IC is available in a small, 4.25mm x 4.25mm x 0.75mm, 22-pin FC2QFN package.

## Applications

- Display Applications
- Tail-Light and Front-Light Applications
- Point-of-Load Power Supplies

## Benefits and Features

- Meets  Stringent  Automotive  Quality  and  Reliability Requirements
- 3.6V to 36V Operating Input Voltage Range Allows Operation in Cold-Crank Conditions
- Tolerates Input Transients up to 42V
- Low Audible Noise for 6A Load Transients
- 9A or 10.8A Typical Input Current Limit
- Loop Bandwidth Adjustment for Fast Transients
- -40°C to +125°C Grade 1 Automotive Temperature Range
- AEC-Q100 Qualified High Integration and Thermally Enhanced Package Reduces BOM Cost and Board Space
- 2.1MHz/400kHz Switching Frequency Options
- Thermally Enhanced, 22-Pin FC2QFN Package
- 5μA Maximum Shutdown Current
- Protection Features Improve System Reliability
- Supply Undervoltage Lockout and Thermal Protection

## Simplified Application Diagram

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

<!-- image -->

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

MAX25660

<!-- image -->

## Automotive Low-Noise Synchronous Buck-Boost Converter

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All Analog Devices products contained herein are subject to release and availability.