<!-- lastmod 2023-12-05 -->
<!-- image -->

## Data Sheet MAX20015-MAX20018

## Single 2.2MHz, Low-Voltage, Step-Down DC-DC Converter Family for Safety Applications

## General Description

The  MAX20015-MAX20018  family  of  ASIL  B-compliant high-efficiency  switching  regulators  delivers  up  to  3A  load current from 0.5V to 3.8V. The devices operate from a 2.7V to 5.5V input voltage range, making them ideal for on-board point-of-load  and  post-regulation  applications.  Total  output error is less than ±1.5% over load, line, and temperature.

The  devices  feature  fixed-frequency  PWM  mode  operation, with a 2.2MHz switching frequency. High-frequency operation allows for an all-ceramic capacitor design and small external components.

The low-resistance on-chip switches ensure high efficiency at heavy loads while minimizing critical inductances, making the layout a much simpler task with respect to discrete solutions. Following a simple layout and footprint ensures first-pass success in new designs.

The devices provide an enable input, spread-spectrum enable input, and RESET output. The output voltage can be preset at the factory to allow customers to achieve ±1.5% output-voltage accuracy without using expensive 0.1% resistors. In addition, the output voltage can be set to any customer value by using two external resistors at the feedback, with 0.5V internal reference. The devices offer factory-programmable soft-start and RESET hold times.

The  10-pin  TDFN  exposed  pad  devices  include  overtemperature  shutdown  and  overcurrent  limiting. All  devices  are designed to operate over the -40°C to +125°C ambient temperature range.

## Applications

- Automotive
- Point-of-Load (PoL)

Visit  Web Support to complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

Rev. 2

DOCUMENT FEEDBACK

TECHNICAL SUPPORT

## Benefits and Features

- High Feature Set in Ultra-Small Footprint
- High-Efficiency DC-DC Converter
- Up to 3A Output Current
- 2.7V to 5.5V Operating Supply Voltage
- Resistor-Adjustable or Factory-Preset Output Voltages
- Synchronizable, 2.2MHz Switching Frequency
- Enable Input
- RESET Output·Spread-Spectrum Enable Input
-  Forced-PWM and Skip Modes
- Current-Mode Architecture
-  3mm x 3mm x 0.85mm 10-Pin TDFN
- High Precision
- Selectable Overvoltage/Undervoltage Thresholds
-  ±1.5% OV/UV Accuracy
- ±1.5% Output-Voltage Accuracy
- Excellent Load-Transient Performance
- Overtemperature and Short-Circuit Protection
- -40°C to +125°C Operating Temperature Range
- Diagnostics and Redundant Circuits
- ASIL B Compliant
-  Redundant Reference
- Shorted Pin Detection on RESET

<!-- image -->