<!-- lastmod 2025-11-19 -->
<!-- image -->

## Four-Output, Low-Noise PMIC for Safety Applications

## General Description

The MAX20433 is a high-efficiency, four-output DC-DC converter  with  a  windowed  watchdog.  The  OUT1  is  a synchronous step-down converter that converts vehicle battery voltage to 3.3V at up to 3A. The OUT3 boosts the OUT1 to 5V at up to 0.5A, while the OUT2/4 lownoise,  low-voltage,  synchronous step-down converters operate  from  OUT1  and  provide  a  0.5V  to  3.6875V output  voltage  range  at  up  to  3.2A.  The  low-noise performance eliminates the need for external LDOs and allows  the  use  of  a  ferrite  bead  (LC)  filter  instead.  All outputs achieve ±1.5% output error.

The device features a 2.1MHz fixed-frequency PWM mode for all DC-DC outputs for better noise immunity and loadtransient  response.  The  2.1MHz  frequency  operation allows for the use of all ceramic capacitors and minimizes the  external  components.  The  programmable  spreadspectrum  frequency  modulation  minimizes  the  radiated electromagnetic emissions. Integrated low-R DSON switches improve efficiency at heavy loads and make the layout much simpler with respect to discrete solutions.

The MAX20433 features the MAXQ ™ power architecture, which provides precision transient performance and phase margin. This allows to obtain the maximum  power,  performance,  and  precision  while minimizing system cost for any specific application.

The  devices  are  offered  with  factory-preset output voltages. Other features include soft-start, overcurrent, and overtemperature protection.

## Key Application

- Advanced Driver-Assistance Systems (ADAS)

## Simplified Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

19-101840; Rev 6; 11/25

## Benefits and Features

- Multiple Functions for Small Size
- 3A Synchronous High-Voltage Buck Converter
- -Input Voltage Range 3.5V to 40V
- -Output Voltage of 3.3V
- 5V Synchronous 0.5A Boost Converter
- Dual 3.2A Low-Noise Buck Converter -0.5V to 3.6875V in 12.5mV Steps
- Flexible Power Sequencer
- Programmable Challenge/Response or Windowed Watchdog
- I 2 C Fast-Mode Plus Compatible Interface with Packet Error-Checking Option (PEC)
- 2.1MHz Internal Operation with Spread Spectrum
- RESET Output
- Current-Mode, Forced-PWM Operation
- High-Precision for ASIL Applications
- ±1.5% Output Voltage Accuracy
- ±1% OV/UV Monitoring
- MAXQ Power Architecture
- Diagnostics and Redundant Circuits
- ASIL C Compliant
- Redundant Reference
- BIST Diagnostics
- Fail-Safe on Open Pins
- Shorted Pin Detection on RESET
- Mount ID Location Detection
- Robust for the Automotive Environment
- Overtemperature and Short-Circuit Protection
- 5mm x 5mm, Side-Wettable TQFN Package
- -40°C to +125°C Automotive Temperature

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

MAX20433

MAX20433

<!-- image -->

## Four-Output, Low-Noise PMIC for Safety Applications

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All Analog Devices products contained herein are subject to release and availability.