<!-- lastmod 2023-12-05 -->
<!-- image -->

## General Description

The MAX20415 is a high-efficiency, dual-output, low-voltage DC-DC  converter.  The  synchronous  step-down  converters operate from a 3.0V to 5.5V input voltage range and provide a  0.8V  to  3.8V  output  voltage  range  at  up  to  3A.  The  buck converters  achieve  ±1.5%  output  error  over  load,  line,  and temperature range.

The IC features a 2.2MHz fixed-frequency pulse-width modulation (PWM) mode for better noise immunity and load-transient response, and a pulse-frequency modulation mode (skip) for increased efficiency during light-load operation. The 2.2MHz frequency  operation  allows  for  use  of  all-ceramic  capacitors,  minimizing  the  total  solution  footprint.  Programmable spread-spectrum  frequency  modulation  minimizes  radiated electromagnetic emissions. Integrated low R DS(ON)  switches improve efficiency at heavy loads and make the layout a much simpler task with respect to discrete solutions.

The  IC  is  offered  with  factory-preset  or  resistor-adjustable output voltages. Other features include soft-start, over-current protection, pin diagnostics, and overtemperature protections. The MAX20415 is available in a lead(Pb)-free, 24-pin TQFN package  (see  the Ordering  Information/Selector  Guide for available options).

## Applications

- Automotive ADAS Applications
- Short-Range Radar

Visit  Web Support to complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

Rev. 6

DOCUMENT FEEDBACK

TECHNICAL SUPPORT

## Data Sheet MAX20415

## 2.2MHz Dual-Output, Low-Voltage Step-Down Converters

## Benefits and Features

- Multiple Functions for Small Size
- Dual Synchronous Buck Converters up to 3A
- Fixed Output Voltage from 0.8V to 3.8V
- Resistor-Adjustable Output Voltage
- 3.0V to 5.5V Operating Supply Voltage
- 2.2MHz Operation
- Individual EN\_ Inputs and RESET\_ Outputs
- Input Supply Monitoring PV\_OV Output
- High Precision
- ±1.5% Output-Voltage Accuracy
- ±1.5% Over/Undervoltage Monitoring Accuracy
- Good Load-Transient Performance
- Diagnostics and Redundant Circuits
- ASIL-C Compliant
-  Redundant Reference
- Fail Safe on Open Pins
- Shorted-Pin Detection on RESET1 / RESET2
- Input Overvoltage Detection
- Robust for the Automotive Environment
- Current-Mode, Forced-PWM, and Skip Operation
- Overtemperature and Short-Circuit Protection
-  4mm x 4mm, 24-Pin TQFN Package
- -40°C to +125°C Automotive Temperature Range

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->