<!-- lastmod 2024-07-29 -->
<!-- image -->

## 4x24 Automotive LED Matrix Driver with ASIL Features

## General Description

The  MAX25505B  is  a  4x24-channel  modular  matrix driver.  The  integrated  current  outputs  can  sink  up  to 72mA LED current each. The source drive pins provide current  to  the  columns  of  the  matrix  on  a  multiplexed basis. Device power comes from an external 3.3V or 5V supply while the LED current-sink outputs can operate at up to 14V.

A  feedback  output  pin  (FB)  is  provided  to  control  an external DC-DC converter so that voltage headroom can be optimized and the overall system power dissipation reduced.

The device is highly flexible due to its programmability using  the  SPI  interface.  Among  the  programmable parameters are the LED  current, individual  PWM settings, and multiplex ratio.

The device features a high-speed interface for controlling  up  to  16  devices  in  a  star  configuration.  In addition, it includes multiple diagnostic features to aid in the building of ASIL B systems.

The  MAX25505B  is  available  in  TQFN  and  TSSOP packages and operates in the -40°C to +125°C temperature range.

## Applications

- Central Information Displays
- Instrument Clusters
- Interior Lighting
- Exterior Rear Lighting

## Benefits and Features

- Flexible Configuration
- Programmable Multiplex Ratio between 4:1 and 1:1
- Integrated Column Drivers
- Programmable Dither for Enhanced Resolution
- Optional Individual Programmable Delays
- Optional Pseudorandom Spread Spectrum on Each Output
- 24 Row Drivers
- Up to 72mA Peak Output Current
- Very Narrow Minimum Current Pulse for Maximum Dimming Ratio
- Optional Ghosting Elimination
- Extensive Diagnostics Supporting ASIL B
- Shorted or Open LEDs
- Programmable V LED  Overvoltage Detection with Flag
- Adjacent SNK\_ to SNK\_ Short Detection
- Shorted SNK\_ or SRC\_ to GND
- ISET Out of Range
- Internal Clock Out-of-Range Detection
- Bandgap Reference Out-of-Range
- CRC on Internal Memory Contents
- Undervoltage/Overvoltage Detection on All Supplies
- Thermal Warning/Shutdown
- FB Output to Control External DC-DC Converter
- SPI Interface with CRC
- VSYNC Synchronization Input (Programmable Active-High/Low)
- 48-Lead TQFN and TSSOP Packages
- AEC-Q100 Grade 1

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

MAX25505B

MAX25505B

<!-- image -->

## 4x24 Automotive LED Matrix Driver with ASIL Features

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.