<!-- lastmod 2023-12-05 -->
<!-- image -->

## General Description

The MAX25322 is an ASIL C-compliant, high-efficiency, dual switching regulator that delivers up to 6A (peak) load current per output from 0.5V to 1.5875V in 12.5mV steps and 1.6V to 3.8V in 50mV steps. The IC operates from 3V to 5.5V, making it ideal for on-board point-of-load and post regulation applications. Total output error is less than ±1.0% over load, line, and temperature.

The  MAX25322  features  fixed-frequency  PWM  mode  operation with a switching frequency of 2.1MHz or 3.2MHz. The high-frequency operation allows for an all-ceramic capacitor design with small external components.

The low-resistance on-chip switches ensure high efficiency at heavy loads while minimizing critical inductances, making the layout a much simpler task with respect to discrete solutions. Following a simple layout and footprint ensure first-pass success in new designs.

The  device  features  the  MAXQ ®   power  architecture,  which provides precision transient performance and phase margin. This allows obtaining the maximum power, performance, and precision from the converter over a very wide range of configurations.

The MAX25322 provides independent enable input for each channel. The output voltage is preset at the factory to allow customers  to  achieve  ±1%  output-voltage  accuracy  without using expensive 0.1% resistors. The device offers factory-programmable soft-start and RESET times.

The  device  includes  overtemperature  shutdown  and  overcurrent  limiting.  It  is  designed  to  operate  over  the  -40°C  to +125°C ambient temperature range.

## Simplified Block Diagram

Visit  Web Support to complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

<!-- image -->

Rev. GLYPH&lt;c=25,font=/SLFQVO+Arial-BoldMT&gt;

DOCUMENT FEEDBACK

TECHNICAL SUPPORT

## Dual, 6A, ASIL C Low-Voltage Buck Converter

## Benefits and Features

- High Feature Set in Ultra-Small Footprint
- High-Efficiency DC-DC Converter
- Two Independent Outputs, up to 6A per Output
- 3.0V to 5.5V Operating Supply Voltage
- Factory-Preset Output Voltage
- 2.1MHz/3.2MHz Options
- Individual Enable Input
- Individual RESET Outputs
- Spread-Spectrum Option
- Peak Current-Mode Architecture
- 3mm x 3.5mm FCQFN
- ASIL C Compliant
- Factory-Programmable OV/UV with ±1% Accuracy
- Redundant Reference
- BIST Diagnostics
- Precision
- ±1% Output-Voltage Accuracy
- Excellent Load-Transient Performance
- PWM and SKIP Mode Operation
- MAXQ Power Architecture
- High Efficiency
- Up to 96% Efficiency 5V to 3.3V
- Up to 90% Efficiency 5V to 1V
- -40°C to +125°C Operating Temperature Range
- AEC-Q100 Qualified

## Applications

- Secondary Regulator for SoC/MCU Supply

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->