<!-- lastmod 2024-08-08 -->
<!-- image -->

MAX25500

## General Description

The MAX25500 is a 4 x 24-channel modular matrix backlight driver for use with local-dimming automotive displays. The integrated current outputs can sink up to 72mA lightemitting diode (LED) current each. The source drive pins provide current to the columns of the matrix on a multiplexed basis. Device power comes from an external 3.3V or 5V supply, while the LED current-sink outputs can operate at up to 14V.

A feedback output pin (FB) is provided to control an external DC-DC converter so that voltage headroom can be optimized and the overall system power dissipation reduced.

The device is highly flexible due to its programmability using  the  serial  peripheral  interface  (SPI).  Among  the  programmable  parameters  are  the  LED  current,  individual pulse-width modulation (PWM) settings, and multiplex ratio.

The device features a high-speed SPI for control using a daisy-chain or star configuration. Up to 16 devices can be daisy-chained to reduce connection complexity.

The MAX25500 is available in TQFN and TSSOP packages, and operates in the -40°C to +125°C temperature range.

## Applications

- Central Information Displays
- Instrument Clusters
- Interior Lighting

## 4 x 24 Automotive LED Matrix Driver

## Benefits and Features

- Flexible Configuration
- Programmable Multiplex Ratio Between 4:1 and 1:1
- Integrated Column Drivers
- Programmable Dither for Enhanced Resolution
- Optional Individual Programmable Delays
- Optional Pseudorandom Fine Delay on Each Output
- 24 Row Drivers
- Up to 72mA Peak Output Current
- Individual Current Control for Each LED Zone
- Very Narrow Minimum Current Pulse for Maximum Dimming Ratio
- Ghosting Elimination Features
- Extensive Diagnostics
- Shorted or Open LEDs
- Programmable V LED  Undervoltage/Overvoltage Detection with Flag
- Adjacent SNK\_ to SNK\_ Short  Detection
- Shorted SNK\_ or SRC\_ to GND
- ISET Out of Range
- Thermal Warning/Shutdown
- FB Output to Control External DC-DC Converter
- High-Speed Daisy-Chain/Star SPI
- VSYNC Synchronization Input (Programmable Active High/Low)
- 48-Lead TQFN and TSSOP Packages
- AEC-Q100 Grade 1

## Simplified Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

MAX25500

<!-- image -->

4 x 24 Automotive LED Matrix Driver

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.