<!-- lastmod 2026-04-16 -->
<!-- image -->

## Quad-Channel, ASIL D-Compliant Automotive Camera Power Protectors

## General Description

The MAX25086 -MAX25089 quad-channel, camera power  protector  ICs  deliver  up  to  1.2A  constant  load current to each of their four output channels. Each output is  individually  protected  from  short-to-battery,  short-toground,  and  overcurrent  conditions.  The  ICs  operate from  a  3V  to  16V  camera  supply  with  input  UV/OV protection.  The  input-to-output  voltage  drop  is  only 120mV (typ) at 600mA.

The  ICs  provide  an  enable  input  and  I 2 C  interface  to configure thresholds and read the diagnostic status of the  device.  The  on-chip  ADC  enables  reading  of  the current through each active channel as well as input and output voltages.

The  MAX25086 -MAX25089  includes  overtemperature shutdown  and  overcurrent  limiting  on each  output channel separately and provides unique fault diagnostics. All devices are designed to operate over the -40°C to +125°C ambient temperature range.

The MAX25087 and MAX25089 are ASIL D-compliant.

## Applications

- Power-over-Coax for Radar and Camera Modules
- Remote Load Protection

MAX25086 -MAX25089

## Benefits and Features

- Small Solution
- Up to Four 1.2A Protection Switches
- 3V to 16V Input Supply
- 28V Short-to-Battery Isolation (V OUT -V IN )
- Adjustable Current Limit (100mA to 1.44A)
- -Independent Limit per Channel
- Onboard 8-Bit ADC
- Parallel Multiple Channels for Higher Current
- Selectable I 2 C Addresses
- Small (3.5mm x 3.5mm), 16-Pin FC2QFN Package
- Precision
- ±5% Current-Limit Accuracy
- Selectable Soft-Start
- Selectable Soft-Shutdown
- 6μA Shutdown Current
- 120mV Drop at 600mA
- Designed for Safety Applications
- ASIL D Compliant
- Short to V BAT /GND/OPEN Diagnostics
- Differential Output Overvoltage Diagnostics
- Input UV/OV Diagnostics
- Voltage and Current Readings through I 2 C
- Autoretry on Fault
- AEC-Q100, -40°C to +125°C

## Typical Application Diagram

<!-- image -->

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

MAX25086 -MAX25089

<!-- image -->

## Quad-Channel, ASIL D-Compliant Automotive Camera Power Protectors

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All Analog Devices products contained herein are subject to release and availability.