<!-- lastmod 2024-12-09 -->
<!-- image -->

## Four-Output Mini PMICs for Safety Applications

## General Description

The MAX20430 is a high-efficiency, four-output DC-DC converter and windowed watchdog. OUT1 is a synchronous step-down converter that converts vehicle battery  voltage  to  3.3V  at  up  to  2.5A.  OUT3  boosts OUT1 to 5V at up to 500mA, while OUT2 and OUT4 lowvoltage synchronous step-down converters operate from OUT1  and  provide  a  0.8V  to  3.9875V  output  voltage range at up to 3A. All outputs achieve ±1.5% output error over load, line, and temperature range.

The  device  features  2.1MHz  fixed-frequency  PWM mode for all DC-DC outputs for better noise immunity and  load-transient  response.  The  2.1MHz  frequency operation allows for the use of all ceramic capacitors and minimizes  external  components.  The  programmable spread-spectrum frequency modulation minimizes radiated electromagnetic emissions. Integrated low RDSON switches improve efficiency at heavy loads and make the layout much simpler with respect to discrete solutions.

The device is offered with factory-preset output voltages. Other features include soft-start, overcurrent, and overtemperature protections.

## Applications

- ADAS

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

## Benefits and Features

- Multiple Functions for Small Size
- Synchronous High-Voltage Buck Converter up to 2.5A
- -Input Voltage Range 3.5V to 40V
- -Output Voltage of 3.3V
- 5V, Synchronous 500mA Boost Converter
- Dual Synchronous Buck Converters up to 3A -0.8V to 3.9875V in 12.5mV Steps
- Flexible Power Sequencer for OUT2, OUT3, and OUT4
- Programmable Challenge/Response or Windowed Watchdog
- Two Free Programmable UV/OV Voltage
- -0.8V to 3.9875V in 12.5mV Steps
- I 2 C Fast-mode Plus-Compatible Interface with Packet Error-Checking Option (PEC)
- 2.1MHz Internal Operation with Spread-Spectrum Option
- RESET Output
- Current-Mode, Forced-PWM Operation
- High Precision for ASIL Applications
- ±1.5% Output Voltage Accuracy
- ±1% OV/UV Monitoring
- Diagnostics and Redundant Circuits
- ASIL C Compliant
- Redundant Reference
- BIST Diagnostics
- Fail Safe on Open Pins
- Shorted Pin Detection on RESET
- Mount ID Location Detection
- Robust for the Automotive Environment
- Overtemperature and Short-Circuit Protection
- 5mm x 5mm, Side-Wettable TQFN Package
- -40°C to +125°C, Grade 1 Automotive Temperature Range

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

19-100691; Rev 15; 12/24

MAX20430

<!-- image -->

## Four-Output Mini PMICs for Safety Applications

## Simplified Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

19-100691; Rev 15; 12/24

MAX20430

<!-- image -->

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All Analog Devices products contained herein are subject to release and availability.