<!-- lastmod 2025-03-19 -->
## ANALOG DEVICES CONFIDENTIAL/DISTRIBUTE ONLY UNDER NDA

<!-- image -->

## 30-Switch Matrix Manager for Automotive Lighting

## General Description

The MAX25621  30-switch matrix manager device enables  fully  dynamic  adaptive  lighting  solutions  by providing individual pixel-level LED control. The device includes  3  strings  of  10  series  connected  integrated switches for bypassing individual LEDs. A microcontroller  is  used  to  control  and  manage  the MAX25621  devices through a multidrop universal asynchronous receiver transmitter (UART) serial interface. The serial interface supports the use of CAN transceivers for a more robust physical layer.

The  internal  charge  pump  rail  supplies  the  gate  drive voltage  for  the  LED  bypass  switches.  The  low  onresistance  (RDS ON )  of  the  bypass  switch  minimizes conduction loss and power dissipation. Individual switches are rated for an absolute maximum voltage of 16V. The LEDs across each switch can be fully turned on, turned off, and PWM dimmed with or without a built in logarithmic fade. The phase shift and pulse width for each individual LED in the string are programmable. The device  uses  an  internal  register  to  adjust  the  PWM frequency. Multiple devices can be synchronized. The switch transitions during PWM dimming operation have a programmable slew rate to mitigate EMI concerns.

## Applications

- Adaptive Driving Beam (ADB)
- Animated Lighting (Turn Indicator/DRL/Position)
- Full Combination Headlamp

## Simplified Application Diagram

<!-- image -->

M

A

X

2

5

6

1

19-101879; Rev 2; 3/25 Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

MAX25621

## Benefits and Features

- Automotive Ready: AEC-Q100 Qualified
- 30 Individually Controlled Switches
- Up to 750mA RMS Switch Current
- Up to 3 LEDs per Switch (16V/Switch)
- Single/Multistring Configuration
- Optimal PWM  Dimming Arrangement Provides Excellent Dimming Performance
- Programmable 12-Bit PWM Dimming
- Fade Transition Between PWM Dimming States
- Dynamic Phase Update without Flicker
- Internal or External Clock for PWM Dimming
- Programmable Slew Rate for EMI Control
- Programmable Fail-Safe Mode
- Individual LED Open and Short Detection
- Multidrop UART Communication Interface
- Up to 16 Addressable Devices
- Compatible with CAN Physical Layer
- Real-Time Fault Detection with Error ACK on UART Interface
- 48-Pin TQFP Package and 48-Pin TQFN Package with EP Pad

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

## ANALOG DEVICES CONFIDENTIAL/DISTRIBUTE ONLY UNDER NDA

MAX25621

## Revision History

|   REVISION NUMBER | REVISION DATE   | DESCRIPTION                                                                                                           | PAGES CHANGED   |
|-------------------|-----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|
|                 0 | 7/24            | Initial release                                                                                                       | -               |
|                 1 | 7/24            | Added Applications; updated Benefits and Features and Electrical Characteristics; added Switch Current Rating section | 1, 3, 9 - 10    |
|                 2 | 3/25            | Updated Ordering Information table                                                                                    | 215             |

<!-- image -->

30-Switch Matrix Manager for Automotive Lighting