<!-- lastmod 2025-11-20 -->
<!-- image -->

## Dual-Output Multiphase High-Current PWMVID and AVSBus Controller

## General Description

The  MAX20816  IC  provides  a  high-density,  flexible, scalable dual-loop solution for high-current cores for AI applications. This dual-loop solution supports up to 16 phases in total, configurable from 16+0 to 8+8 phases between Rail A and Rail B. Coupled inductors and smart power-stage  ICs  are  used  to  implement  dual  highefficiency regulators with enhanced transient response. The  complete  circuit  is  a  highly  efficient  (N+M)  =  16 multiphase synchronous buck converter with extensive status and parameter-measurement features. A single, scalable  PCB  design  with  appropriate  smart  powerstage IC selection can be used to produce two power supplies  with  a  wide  range  of  current  ratings.  PWM paralleling allows up to 48 phases for very high current applications.

The  IC's  simplified  architecture  reduces  component count,  enables  advanced  power  management  and telemetry,  and  increases  energy  savings  over  the  full load range.

Regulator parameters for protection and shutdown can be set and monitored through the PMBus ™ interface. Power-stage faults, input and output voltage, input and output current, input power, and the temperature of the smart  power-stage  IC  are  readable  over  the  serial interface.  The  critical  fault  retention  feature  prevents exothermic events after a power-device fault. Preset and user configurations are programmed  in  nonvolatile memory (NVM). MTP-programmable NVM circuits allow for field modifications. An integrated 3.3V to 1.8V linear regulator provides the controller bias supply.

The MAX20816 is available in  a  56-pin,  7mm  x  7mm TQFN package.

## Applications

- NVIDIA GPUs with PWMVID Interface
- AVSBus ™ for Fast Dynamic Voltage Transitions
- AI Cores, XPUs, GPUs, Networking ASICs
- High-Current Multiphase Voltage Regulators
- 32ph (2 Parallel) or 48ph (3 Parallel) Configuration
- Up to 2500A

PMBus and AVSBus are trademarks of SWIF, Inc.

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

## Benefits and Features

- High Power Density and Efficiency
- Smart Power-Stage Support
- Top-Tier Efficiency (90.71% Peak Efficiency at 0.75V OUT )
- Integrated Output Power Monitor
- 16-ph N+M Dual-Loop Multiphase Architecture
- High-Speed Digital Interface
- PWMVID and AVSBus Support
- Telemetry through PMBus
- Digitally Programmable Configuration
- Input Voltage, Current, and Power Monitoring
- Power-Stage Temperature Monitoring and Reporting
- Fault, Command, and Data Logging (Black Box Feature)
- Digital GPIO (OCP, OTW, VR Settled Indicators)
- Advanced Power Management
- Orthogonal Current Rebalance for Phase-Current Balance during Transients
- Programmable Phase Firing Order
- Protection Features
- Input and Bias Supply Undervoltage Protection
- Overcurrent Protection
- Password Protection

## Typical Operating Circuit

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

<!-- image -->

MAX20816

MAX20816

<!-- image -->

## Dual-Output Multiphase High-Current PWMVID and AVSBus Controller

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All Analog Devices products contained herein are subject to release and availability.