<!-- lastmod 2023-12-05 -->
<!-- image -->

## Data Sheet MAX20413

## 2.2MHz Sync Boost and Step-Down Converters with Programable Watchdog

## General Description

The  MAX20413  is  a  high-efficiency,  two-output,  low-voltage DC-DC converter. OUT1 boosts the input supply up to 8.5V at up to 750mA, while a synchronous step-down converter operates from a 3.0V to 5.5V input voltage range and provides a 0.8V to 3.8V output voltage range at up to 3A. The boost converter achieves ±2% and the buck converter achieves ±1.5% output error over load, line, and temperature range.

The IC features a 2.2MHz fixed-frequency pulse-width modulation (PWM) mode for better noise immunity and load-transient  response,  and  a  pulse-frequency-modulation  mode (skip) for increased efficiency during light-load operation. The 2.2MHz frequency operation allows for the use of all-ceramic capacitors  and  minimizes  external  components.  The  programmable spread-spectrum frequency modulation minimizes radiated electromagnetic emissions. Integrated low R DS(ON) switches  improve  efficiency  at  heavy  loads,  and  make  the layout a much simpler task with respect to discrete solutions.

The  IC's  step-down  regulator  can  be  configured  with  either a  factory-preset  or  resistor-adjustable  output  voltage  (see the Ordering  Information/Selector  Guide for  options).  Other features include soft-start, overcurrent, and overtemperature protections.

## Benefits and Features

- Multiple Functions for Small Size
- Synchronous 750mA Boost Converter
- Fixed from 3.8V to 8.5V in 100mV Steps
- Synchronous Buck Converter Up to 3A
-  Fixed from 0.8V to 3.8V in 25mV Steps
-  External Resistor-Adjustable
-  Programmable Windowed Watchdog
- 3.0V to 5.5V Operating Supply Voltage
- 2.2MHz Operation · Individual Channel RESET\_ Outputs
- High-Precision for ASIL Applications
-  ±2% Output-Voltage Accuracy (OUT1) and ±1.5% Output-Voltage Accuracy (OUT2)
-  ±1.5% Overvoltage/Undervoltage Monitoring Accuracy
-  Excellent Load-Transient Performance
- Diagnostics and Redundant Circuits
- ASIL-C Compliant · Redundant Reference
- Fail Safe on Open Pins
- Shorted-Pin Detection on RESET1 / RESET2
- Input Overvoltage Detection
- Robust for the Automotive Environment
- Current-Mode, Forced-PWM and Skip Operation
- Overtemperature and Output Short-Circuit Protection
-  4mm x 4mm 24-Pin TQFN with Exposed Pad
- -40°C to +125°C Automotive Temperature Range

Visit  Web Support to complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

Rev. 1

DOCUMENT FEEDBACK

TECHNICAL SUPPORT

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->