<!-- lastmod 2026-01-06 -->
<!-- image -->

MAX20428

## General Description

The MAX20428 is a high-efficiency, eight-output, low-voltage  PMIC.  OUT1  boosts  the  input  supply  to  5V  at  up to 500mA, while three synchronous step-down converters operate from an input voltage range of 3.0V to 4.2V and provide  an  output  voltage  range  of  0.8V  to  3.9875V   at up to 1.3A peak, 1.3A peak, and 3.5A peak, respectively. Three 300mA pMOS LDOs operate from an input voltage range  of  2.7V  to  5.5V  and  provide  an  output  voltage  of 0.8V to 3.9875V. A 25mΩ load switch with soft-start is also included. All regulated outputs achieve ±1.5% DC accuracy over load, line, and temperature range.

The  device  features  a  2.1MHz  fixed-frequency  PWM mode  for  better  noise  immunity  and  load-transient  response. The 2.1MHz frequency operation allows for the use of all ceramic capacitors and minimizes external components. The programmable spread-spectrum frequency modulation minimizes radiated electromagnetic emissions. Integrated low R DS(ON)  switches improve efficiency at heavy loads and simplify the layout with respect to discrete solutions.

The device is offered with factory-preset output voltages. See the Ordering Information table for options. Other features include soft-start, overcurrent, and overtemperature protections.

## Applications

- Advanced Driver-Assistance Systems

## Eight-Output Mini PMIC for ADAS Applications

## Benefits and Features

- Multiple Functions for Small Size
- Synchronous 5V, 500mA Boost Converter
- Dual 1A Synchronous Buck Converters
- 0.8V to 3.9875V in 12.5mV Steps
- 1.3A Peak Output Capability
- Single 3A Synchronous Buck Converter
- 0.8V to 3.9875V in 12.5mV Steps
- 3.5A Peak Output Capability
- Three 300mA Low-Dropout Linear Regulators
- One 25mΩ Load Switch
- Programmable Challenge/Response Watchdog
- I 2 C Fast-mode Plus Compatible Interface with Packet-Error Checking (PEC) Option
- 2.1MHz Internal Operation with Spread-Spectrum Option
- High-Precision Performance
- ±1.5% Output Voltage Accuracy
- ±1% OV/UV Monitoring
- Excellent Load-Transient Performance
- Diagnostics and Redundant Circuits
- ASIL C Compliant
- Redundant Reference
- Fail-Safe on Open Pins
- Shorted Pin Detection on RESET
- PV Supply OV/UV Monitor
- Robust for the Automotive Environment
- Current-Mode, Forced-PWM Operation
- Overtemperature and Short-Circuit Protection
- 5mm x 5mm, 28-Pin, Side-Wettable TQFN
- -40°C to +125°C Grade 1 Automotive Temperature Range

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

19-100510; Rev 7; 12/25

© 2025 Analog Devices, Inc. All rights reserved. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

## Simplified Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

MAX20428

<!-- image -->

Eight-Output Mini PMIC for ADAS Applications

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.