<!-- lastmod 2024-07-15 -->
<!-- image -->

## 4 x 24 Automotive LED Matrix Drivers with ASIL Features

## General Description

The MAX25504/MAX25505 are 4 x 24-channel modular matrix drivers. The integrated current outputs can sink up  to  65mA  LED  current  each.  The  source  drive  pins provide  current  to  the  columns  of  the  matrix  on  a multiplexed basis. Device power comes from an external 3.3V or 5V supply, while the LED current-sink outputs can operate at up to 14V.

A  feedback  output  pin  (FB)  is  provided  to  control  an external DC-DC converter so that voltage headroom can be optimized and the overall system power dissipation reduced.

The devices are highly flexible due to their programmability  using  the  SPI  interface.  Among  the programmable parameters are the LED current, individual PWM settings, and multiplex ratio.

The devices feature a high-speed interface for controlling up to 16 devices in a daisy-chain configuration. In addition, they include multiple diagnostic  features  to  aid  in  the  building  of  ASIL  B systems.

The MAX25504/MAX25505 are available in TQFN and TSSOP packages and operate in the -40°C to +125°C temperature range.

## Applications

- Central Information Displays
- Instrument Clusters
- Interior Lighting
- Exterior Rear Lighting

MAX25504/MAX25505

## Benefits and Features

- Flexible Configuration
- Programmable Multiplex Ratio Between 4:1 and 1:1
- Integrated Column Drivers
- Programmable Dither for Enhanced Resolution
- Optional Individual Programmable Delays
- Optional Pseudorandom Spread Spectrum on Each Output
- 24 Row Drivers
- Up to 65mA Peak Output Current
- Very Narrow Minimum Current Pulse for Maximum Dimming Ratio
- Optional Ghosting Elimination
- Extensive Diagnostics Supporting ASIL B
- Shorted or Open LEDs
- Programmable V LED  Overvoltage Detection with Flag
- Adjacent SNK\_ to SNK\_ Short Detection
- Shorted SNK\_ or SRC\_ to GND
- ISET Out of Range
- Internal Clock Out-of-Range Detection
- Bandgap Reference Out-of-Range
- CRC on Internal Memory Contents
- Undervoltage/Overvoltage Detection on All Supplies
- Thermal Warning/Shutdown
- FB Output to Control External DC-DC Converter
- SPI Interface Optionally with CRC (MAX25505)
- VSYNC Synchronization Input (Programmable Active-High/Low)
- 48-Lead TQFN and TSSOP Packages
- AEC-Q100 Grade 1

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

19-101787; Rev 1; 4/24

MAX25504/MAX25505

<!-- image -->

## 4 x 24 Automotive LED Matrix Drivers with ASIL Features

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.