<!-- lastmod 2025-09-15 -->
<!-- image -->

## High-Current VCSEL/IR Driver with HV Buck and Diagnostics for Automotive Driver Monitoring

## General Description

The MAX25616 is a highly integrated IC that includes a high-current VCSEL/IR driver, high-voltage DC-DC stepdown  converter,  and  I 2 C  digital  interface,  providing  a compact solution for automotive driver monitoring systems.

The  high-current  VCSEL/IR  driver  features  an  Analog Devices-proprietary  driver  that  is  designed  to  operate from 4V to 36V and provide peak currents up to 10A. The output voltage of the step-down converter is set at 3.3V  (factory-adjustable  from  2.8V  to  5.2V  in  50mV increments) and can provide up to 3A current.

The device features an I 2 C serial interface for communication with an external microcontroller. The I 2 C interface programming options include: VCSEL/IR current,  VCSEL/IR  maximum  on-time,  and  switching frequency  of  the  VCSEL/IR  driver.  Additionally,  the device provides fault and diagnostic information through the I 2 C interface. An integrated 8-bit ADC converts the VCSEL/IR voltage and VCSEL/IR instantaneous current. By connecting a resistor-divider with an NTC to the AIN1/AIN2 input, the VCSEL/IR temperature can be sensed and read through the I 2 C interface.

The  device  is  available  in  a  28-pin,  5mm  x  5mm FC2QFN package and is specified for -40°C to +125°C operation.

## Applications

- Automotive Driver Monitoring Systems
- ADAS Camera Systems

## Benefits and Features

- Automotive Ready
- AEC-Q100 Grade 1 and ASIL B Compliant
- -40°C to +125°C Operating Temperature Range
- Integration Minimizes BOM and PCB Area
- Integrated Low-R DSON  Power Switches for VCSEL/IR Driver: 17.5mΩ for LS and 30mΩ for HS
- Integrated Switches for the Step-down Converter
- Space-Saving, 5mm x 5mm FC2QFN Package
- I 2 C Programming and Monitoring
- Comprehensive Fault Protection
- VCSEL/IR V MAX  and V MIN  Monitoring
- VCSEL/IR Overcurrent Protection (I MAX ) and Current Monitoring for Eye Safety
- PWM Duration Protection
- VCSEL/IR Temperature Monitoring
- Step-down Converter Undervoltage/Overvoltage Protection
- Thermal Warning and Thermal Shutdown
- EMI Mitigation
- Spread-Spectrum Frequency Option
- Low-Inductance FC2QFN Package

## Simplified Application Diagram

<!-- image -->

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

19-101841; Rev 1; 9/25

MAX25616

Systems

## High-Current VCSEL/IR Driver with HV Buck and Diagnostics for Automotive Driver Monitoring

Systems

<!-- image -->

MAX25616

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All Analog Devices products contained herein are subject to release and availability.