<!-- lastmod 2025-08-25 -->
<!-- image -->

## Dual-Phase Synchronous Boost Controllers with Programmable Gate Drive and I2C

## General Description

The  MAX25203D/MAX25203E  automotive  dual-phase synchronous boost controllers enable infotainment systems to stay in regulation during cold-crank or startstop  operation  all  the  way  down  to  a  battery  input  of 1.8V.  They  can  also  be  used  to  generate  backlight voltage  and  Class  D  audio  amplifier  voltages.  These devices can start with an input voltage supply from 4.5V to 42V and can operate down to 1.8V after startup, and have a low 5µA shutdown supply current.

The MAX25203D/MAX25203E operate at up to 2.1MHz frequency  to  allow  small  external  components  and reduced  output  ripple,  and  guarantee  no  AM  band interference. The switching frequency is resistor adjustable (220kHz to 2100kHz) or it can be synchronized on-the-fly to an external clock.

The MAX25203D/MAX25203E have a spread-spectrum option for frequency modulation to minimize EMI interference.  A  90°  out-of-phase  clock  output  enables synchronizing  a  second  MAX25203D/MAX25203E  for quad-phase operation.

Pass-through operation has over 98% efficiency when the supply voltage exceeds the output regulation voltage.  Programmable  current-limit  blanking  handles high peak loads without oversizing the inductor.

The  MAX25203D/MAX25203E  feature  a  power-OK monitor  and  undervoltage  lockout.  Protection  features include cycle-by-cycle current limit and thermal shutdown.  These  devices  operate  over  the  -40°C  to +125°C automotive temperature range.

## Applications

- Infotainment Systems
- Automotive Audio Amplifier

True Shutdown is a trademark of Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.

MAX25203D/MAX25203E

## Benefits and Features

- Meet  Stringent  OEM  Module  Power  Consumption and Performance Specifications
- ±1.5% Output-Voltage Accuracy at FB
- Output Voltage Adjustable between 12V and 65V (70V, abs max)
- 5µA Shutdown Supply Current
- High Efficiency and Current Sharing
- Pass-Through for &gt;98% Efficiency
- One-Time Programming (OTP) Gate Drive Voltage from 6.5V to 10V Allows User to Optimize External MOSFETs and Improve Efficiency
- Current Sharing Accuracy of ±5% between Phases to Improve System Efficiency
- Programmable Current-Limit Blanking Handles High Peak Loads without Oversizing Inductor
- EMI-Reduction  Features  Reduce  Interference  with Sensitive Radio Bands without Sacrificing Wide Input Voltage Range
- Spread-Spectrum Option
- On-the-Fly Frequency-Synchronization Input
- Resistor-Programmable Frequency between 220kHz and 2.1MHz
- Synchronization Output Provides 90° Out-ofPhase Clock for Quad-Phase Operation
- Integration and Thermally Enhanced Package Saves Board Space and Cost
- Current-Mode Controllers with ForcedContinuous and Skip Modes
- Side-Wettable, 32-Pin TQFN-EP Package
- Protection Features and I 2 C Diagnostics for Improved System Reliability
- Operational Undervoltage Lockout
- Short-Circuit Protection with True Shutdown TM
- Supply Undervoltage Lockout through I 2 C
- Die Temperature Monitoring through I 2 C
- Individual Phase Current Monitoring through I 2 C

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

19-101955; Rev 1; 7/25

## Simplified Application Diagram

<!-- image -->

MAX25203D/MAX25203E

## Dual-Phase Synchronous Boost Controllers with Programmable Gate Drive and I2C

<!-- image -->

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All Analog Devices products contained herein are subject to release and availability.