<!-- lastmod 2024-09-10 -->
<!-- image -->

## MAX25614A/MAX25614B/ MAX25614E/MAX25614F/ MAX25614G

## General Description

The  MAX25614  is  a  high-current  IR  LED/VCSEL  driver for automotive driver monitoring systems (DMS). This IC can drive IR LED/VCSEL strings of up to 35V from a 4.5V to 36V input supply. The MAX25614 can drive up to 10A peak  current  to  the  IR  emitter.  It  is  designed  for  applications  where  the  IR  emitter  is  pulsed  on  and  off,  typically  at  60Hz  or  the  shutter  speed  of  the  corresponding image sensor. The MAX25614 uses fixed-frequency, average current-mode control with programmable switching frequency options of 420kHz, 1MHz, 1.6MHz, and 2.1MHz. Both an inrush current-limiting pFET and a lowside switching nFET are integrated.

The  MAX25614  incorporates  an  I 2 C  serial  interface  for communication with an external microcontroller. I 2 C programming  options  include:  LED  current  amplitude,  LED current  slew  rate,  boost  converter  output  voltage,  boost converter  input  current,  switching  frequency,  maximum LED  current,  and  maximum  LED  on-time.  Additionally, the MAX25614 provides fault and diagnostic information through the I 2 C interface.  Analog-controlled variants are available as well, and are described in the MAX25614C/ MAX25614D data sheet.

A dedicated current-monitoring circuit is integrated to provide  LED current information  to  the  microcontroller.  The MAX25614 has an open-drain fault output that asserts low in case of open LED, LED overcurrent, excessive LED ontime, LEDN short to battery, boost UV/OV, inrush currentlimiting pFET timeout, or thermal warning/shutdown. The MAX25614 is available in a 28-pin, side-wettable TQFN package with exposed pad and is specified for operation over the -40°C to +125°C automotive temperature range.

## Applications

- Automotive Driver Monitoring System (DMS)
- Automotive Occupant Monitoring System (OMS)
- Night Vision
- Optical Inspection/Machine Vision

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

19-101241; Rev 4; 5/24

© 2024 Analog Devices, Inc. All rights reserved. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

## Automotive IR LED/VCSEL Drivers for Driver Monitoring Systems

## Benefits and Features

- Integration Minimizes BOM and PCB Area
- Integrated Switching nFET
- Integrated pFET with Inrush Current Limit
- I 2 C Programming Controls
- Comprehensive Fault Protection Including Eye Safety
- LED Current Monitoring, Overcurrent Protection
- LED Short-to-Ground/Battery Protection
- LED Open Protection
- Boost Under/Overvoltage Protection
- Thermal Warning and Shutdown
- EMI Mitigation
- Spread-Spectrum Frequency Modulation
- Programmable LED Current Slew Rate
- Automotive Ready
- -40°C to +125°C Operating Temperature Range
- AEC-Q100 Grade 1 and ASIL B Compliant

## Simplified Application Circuit

<!-- image -->

MAX25614A/MAX25614B/ MAX25614E/MAX25614F/ MAX25614G

<!-- image -->

Automotive IR LED/VCSEL Drivers for Driver Monitoring Systems

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.