<!-- lastmod 2024-09-18 -->
<!-- image -->

©

Click here to ask an associate for production status of specific part numbers.

## Direct-Conversion to Low-IF Tuners for Digital Audio Broadcast

## General Description

The MAX2170/MAX2171 direct-conversion to low-IF tuners are designed for Digital Audio Broadcast (DAB) and Terrestrial Digital Multimedia Broadcast (T-DMB) applications,  covering  an  input  frequency  range  of  168MHz  to 240MHz (VHF-III), 1452MHz to 1492MHz (L-Band), and also  87MHz  to  108MHz  (FM).  The  MAX2170/MAX2171 achieve  a  high  level  of  component  integration,  allowing low-power, tuner-on-board designs. The direct-conversion to low-IF architecture eliminates the need for an IF-SAW filter  while  providing  a  balanced  2.048MHz  center  frequency baseband output to the demodulator.

The MAX2170 provides a buffered reference clock at the crystal frequency, while the MAX2171 outputs a reference at 1/3rd of the crystal frequency.

A sigma-delta fractional-N synthesizer is incorporated to optimize both close-in and wideband phase noise performances for OFDM applications where sensitivity to both 1kHz phase noise and wideband phase noise related to strong adjacents can be a problem.

The  MAX2170/MAX2171  are  available  in  a  40-pin  thin QFN  package  (6mm  x  6mm)  with  an  exposed  paddle. Electrical  performance is guaranteed over the extended -40°C to +85°C temperature range.

## Applications

- Fixed and Mobile Digital Audio Broadcast (DAB)
- Terrestrial Digital Multimedia Broadcast (T-DMB)

MAX2170/MAX2171

## Features

- +2.7V to +3.5V Supply Voltage Range
- Low-IF Output Eliminates IF-SAW Filter
- Integrated Low-IF Bandpass Filter
- Sigma-Delta Fractional-N Synthesizer
- +45dB Digital ACPR
- 3.5dB Typical Noise Figure for VHF-III (Includes On-Chip Tracking Filter)
- 3.1dB Typical Noise Figure for L-Band
- VHF-III Sensitivity of -100dBm
- L-Band Sensitivity of -99dBm
- Baseband Overload Detector Controls RF AGC

Typical Application Circuit appears at end of data sheet.

## Pin Configuration/Functional Diagram

<!-- image -->

MAX2170/MAX2171

<!-- image -->

## Direct-Conversion to Low-IF Tuners for Digital Audio Broadcast

Information furnished by Analog Devices is believed to be accurate and reliable. However, no responsibility is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subMect to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.