<!-- lastmod 2023-12-01 -->
<!-- image -->

## MAX30131/MAX30132/ MAX30134

## General Description

The  MAX30131/MAX30132/MAX30134  are  1-,  2-,  and 4-channel  (respectively)  ultra-low  power  programmable analog front ends (AFE) for use with electrochemical sensors. The devices provide the biasing and complete measurement path, including the analog to digital converters (ADCs). The  flexibility  of  the  MAX30131/MAX30132/ MAX30134 enables them to work with both two and three terminal electrochemical sensors, providing both DC current measurement and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy  (EIS)  measurement  capability.  The  devices  include an internal temperature sensor and programmable voltage reference to support external temperature monitoring, and an external reference source to integrate voltage monitoring of bias and supply voltages for safety and compliance.

The  MAX30131/MAX30132/MAX30134  support  single-, dual-,  and  quad-  two-terminal  or  three-terminal  electrochemical sensors, respectively. Ultra-low power allows for the continuous biasing of the sensor to maintain accuracy and fast response when a measurement is required. The MAX30131/MAX30132/MAX30134 operate over a 1.73V to 5.0V voltage range. Total current consumption can be less than 5μA depending on the configuration, measurement frequency, and number of sensors. Communication is through a 4-pin SPI serial interface plus a configurable interrupt pin and four configurable general purpose input/ outputs (GPIOs) for direct control of internal functions.

The MAX30131/MAX30132/MAX30134 are available in a 25-bump WLP package and operate over a 0°C to +70°C temperature range.

## Applications

- Electrochemical Sensors
- Continuous Glucose Monitors
- Sweat Sensors
- Wearable Devices

Visit Web Support t o complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

19-100638; Rev 5; 2/25

© 2025 Analog Devices, Inc. All rights reserved. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

## 1-, 2-, 4-Channel, Ultra-Low Power Electrochemical Sensor AFEs

## Benefits and Features

- Multichannel Operation
- Up to Four Independent DC Channels
- 1 Switchable EIS Channel
- High Accuracy and Precision
- Up to Four 12-Bit Voltage DACs
- Up to Four 16-Bit Current ADCs
- Programmable 0.8pA to 30pA Resolution
- One 16-Bit EIS ADC
- Programmable 0.014Hz to 27kHz Sine Wave Drive
- 12-Bit Voltage System ADC
- 16-Bit Temperature Sensor
- Programmable, 30ppm/°C Voltage Reference
- Autonomous Modes with 256 Word Configurable FIFO and Programmable Alarm
- Long Battery Life for 2- and 3-Terminal Sensors
- 3.5μA Continuous Bias Supply Current for Single 2or 3-Terminal Sensor
- Add 0.25μA for Each Additional Sensor
- Small Size
- 25-Bump WLP 2.93mm x 2.93mm
- Safety and Compliance
- Monitor Sensor Bias Voltages for Compliance
- Monitor Supply/Battery Voltage and Temperature
- Simple and Robust Digital Interface
- 8MHz 4-Wire SPI Interface
- Programmable Interrupt
- Four Programmable GPIOs
- IEC61000-4-2 ESD: ±15kV Air, ±8kV Contact On Sensor Pins

MAX30131/MAX30132/ MAX30134

<!-- image -->

1-, 2-, 4-Channel, Ultra-Low Power Electrochemical Sensor AFEs

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.