<!-- lastmod 2025-11-03 -->
<!-- image -->

## Nano-Power Arm Cortex-M33 MCU with Bluetooth LE for CGM and Wearable Applications

## General Description

The MAX32657 microcontroller (MCU) is an advanced system-on-chip  (SoC)  featuring  an  Arm ®   Cortex ® -M33 core  with  TrustZone ® ,  memory  protection  unit  (MPU), single-precision floating  point  unit  (FPU),  digital  signal processing (DSP) instructions operating at up to 50MHz, large flash and SRAM  memories,  and  the latest generation ultra-low power radio supporting Bluetooth ® Low Energy  (LE)  5.4  specification.  This  device  unites processing horsepower with the connectivity required for medical applications such as continuous glucose monitoring  (CGM)  and  other  wearables.  The  nanopower modes increase battery life substantially.

A  cryptographic  toolbox  (CTB)  provides  an  advanced encryption standard (AES) engine, TRNG, and secure boot.  The  device  incorporates  the  M33  core,  which includes  the  Arm  TrustZone  security  extension  for secure yet flexible applications.

Many  high-speed  interfaces are supported on the device, including SPI, UART, and I 2 C serial interfaces. All  interfaces  support  efficient  direct  memory  access (DMA)-driven transfers.

The MAX32657 is qualified to operate over a -20°C to +85°C  temperature  range,  which  is  ideal  for  medical environments. The device is packaged in a 2.621mm by 2.621mm, 0.4mm pitch WLP to allow 2-layer PCBs.

For more information and sampling availability, contact your ADI sales representative.

## Applications

- Continuous Glucose Monitors
- Insulin Pumps
- Portable and Wearable Wireless Medical Devices
- SensorHub
- Fitness/Health Wearables
- Electronic Shelf Labels
- Power Tools
- Bluetooth LE Bridge for IoT at the Edge

MAX32657

## Benefits and Features

- Arm Cortex-M33 Core with TrustZone and FPU
- Arm Memory Protection Unit (MPU)
- -Secure MPU -Eight Regions
- -Nonsecure MPU -Eight Regions
- -Secure and Nonsecure SysTick Timers
- 1.2V to 1.6V Input Range for Integrated Boost DC-DC Converter
- Internal 50MHz Oscillator
- External MEMS/Crystal Support
- 32MHz Required for Bluetooth LE
- 1MB Internal Flash with ECC
- 256kB Internal SRAM
- 8kB Cache
- 32.768kHz RTC External Crystal
- ACTIVE Mode: 43μA/MHz Arm Cortex-M33 Running Coremark (50MHz)
- Bluetooth LE 5.4 Radio
- Rx Sensitivity: -97dBm; Tx Power: +6dBm
- 15mW Tx Power at 0dBm at V DD12  = 1.5V
- 14mW Rx Power at V DD12  = 1.5V
- SingleEnded Antenna Connection (50Ω)
- 1Mbps and 2Mbps Mode
- Long-Range (125kbps and 500kbps) Modes
- Optimal Peripheral Mix Provides Platform Scalability
- Two DMA Controllers (Secure and Nonsecure)
- One SPI Controller/Target
- One I 2 C
- One UART
- Six 32-Bit Low-Power Timers with PWM
- 14 Configurable GPIO with Internal Pull-Up/PullDown Resistors
- Cryptographic Tool Box (CTB) for IP/Data Security
- True Random Number Generator (TRNG)
- AES-128/192/256
- 104-Bit Unique Serial Number (USN)
- Secure Boot

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

## Simplified Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

MAX32657

Notes

<!-- image -->

Nano-Power Arm Cortex-M33 MCU with Bluetooth LE for CGM and Wearable Applications

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All Analog Devices products contained herein are subject to release and availability.