<!-- lastmod 2024-07-23 -->
<!-- image -->

MAX32570

## General Description

The MAX32570 DeepCover ®  secure microcontroller provides an interoperable, secure, and cost-effective solution to  build  new  generations  of  trusted  devices.  It  can  be used in single-chip applications such as PIN pads, mobile POS (MPOS), and secure card reader for PIN (SCRP), but also in dual-chip applications such as countertop and tablet  POS.  It  includes  all  the  essential  functions  to  address those applications including a multi-protocol RF contactless controller and radio front-end, a dual smart card controller,  a  parallel  camera  interface,  a  magnetic  stripe reader (MSR), a TFT controller, and a secure keypad controller.

The MAX32570 operates at 150MHz and is based on an Arm ®   Cortex ® -M4  with  FPU  processor  with  1MB  flash, 760KB SRAM, 8KB OTP, 1KB of battery-backed AES selfencrypted nonvolatile SRAM (NVSRAM) and a 256-bit flipflop-based  battery-backed  key  storage.  The  flash  memory is  split  into  two  banks  of  512KB  to  provide  flexibility when programming over the air. Error correction  coding (ECC)  (single-error  correction  double-error  detection,  or SEC-DED)  for  flash  and  SRAM  provides  extremely  reliable  code  execution.  The  device  embeds  both  secure public and private key cryptographic algorithms and a true random number generator (TRNG) compliant with SP-800-90A and SP-800-90B standards. It also features a number of security protections and detectors to enforce system integrity including a dynamic sensor controller, environmental sensors, and fault detectors.

The  device  features  five  flexible  power  modes.  Multiple SPI, UART, and I 2 C serial interfaces, as well as a QSPI, 1-Wire ®   master,  a  USB  2.0  High-Speed  device,  and  an optional 10/100 Ethernet MAC, allow for greater connectivity. Some device package variants offer flexible off-chip memory expansion that supports SD/SDHC, SDIO/eMMC cards, QSPI flash, and SRAM memories with eXecute In Place (XIP), encryption, and authentication. The device is available in a number of package variants, ranging from 121-pin BGA to 169-pin BGA, 0.65mm pitch packages.

## Applications

- Secure Card Reader for PIN (SCRP)
- PCI Mobile Payment Terminals (MPOS)
- Countertop and Tablet POS
- Contact/Contactless PIN Pads
- ATM Keyboards

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

## Low-Power Arm Cortex-M4 Microcontroller with Contactless Radio for Secure Applications

## Benefits and Features

- High-Efficiency Microcontroller for Secure BatteryPowered Applications
- Arm Cortex-M4 Processor with FPU up to 150MHz
- 150MHz and 75MHz Internal Oscillators
- Low-Power 7.37MHz System Clock Option
- 1MB Flash, Organized into Dual Banks 2 x 512KB
- 760KB (608KB ECC) SRAM
- Optional Error Correction Code (ECC-SEC-DED) for Cache, SRAM, and Internal Flash
- 1KB AES Encrypted NVSRAM, 8KB Internal OTP
- Scalable Cached External Memory Interfaces
- QSPI Flash with AES-GCM and XiP
- QSPI SRAM with AES-GCM and XiP
- 150Mbps SDHC/eMMC/SDIO/microSD Interface
- Security Features Facilitates System-Level Protection
- ISO 14443A/B, JIS X 6319-4, ISO 15693 Contactless Reader with Internal Transceiver
- Secure Bootloader with Public Key Authentication
- Hardware AES, DES, ECDSA, and SHA-2 Engines
- 10-Line Secure Keypad Controller
- TRNG (SP-800-90A and SP-800-90B)
- Six External Dynamic Tamper Sensors
- Die Shield with Dynamic Random Signal
- 1x 256-Bit and 2x 128-Bit Flip-Flop-Based AES Key Storage
- Temperature and Voltage Tamper Monitor
- Fault Detectors
- Optimal Peripheral Mix Provides Platform Scalability
- 16-Channel DMA
- One QSPI/SPI Master
- Up to Three SPI Master (37.5MHz)/Slave (75MHz)
- Up to Six UARTs with Flow Control
- Up to Two ISO 7816 UART/Smart Card Controller
- Up to Three 1MHz I 2 C Master/Slave
- Up to Three Channels 7.8ksps 10-Bit Sigma-Delta ADC
- USB 2.0 High-Speed Device Interface with PHY
- 10/100 Ethernet MAC with RMII/MII Support
- 24-Bit TFT LCD Controller
- 12-Bit Parallel Camera Interface
- Triple-Track Magnetic Stripe Head Interface
- Eight Pulse Train Generators
- Six 32-Bit Timers, Two HTimers
- 1-Wire Master, Two Watchdog Timers
- Real-Time Clock (RTC)

Arm and Cortex are registered trademarks of Arm Limited (or its subsidiaries) in the US and/or elsewhere.

DeepCover and 1-Wire are registered trademarks of Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.

19-100602; Rev 6; 6/23

© 2023 Analog Devices, Inc. All rights reserved. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

## MAX32570

## Simplified Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

## Low-Power Arm Cortex-M4 Microcontroller with Contactless Radio for Secure Applications

MAX32570

<!-- image -->

Low-Power Arm Cortex-M4 Microcontroller with Contactless Radio for Secure Applications

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.