<!-- lastmod 2023-02-14 -->
## ABRIDGED DATA SHEET

Click here for production status of specific part numbers.

MAX32590

## General Description

DeepCover ®  embedded security solutions cloak sensitive data under multiple layers of advanced physical security to provide the most secure key storage possible.

The  DeepCover  Secure  Microcontroller  (MAX32590) provides  an  interoperable,  secure,  and  cost-effective solution  to  build  new  generations  of  trusted  devices such as multimedia-enabled portable EFT-POS terminals. The  MAX32590 integrates  a  memory  management  unit (MMU), 32KB of instruction cache, 16KB of data cache, 4KB instruction TCM, 4KB data TCM, 384KB of system RAM,  2KB  of  one-time-programmable  (OTP)  memory, 128KB of boot ROM, and 24KB of battery-backed SRAM. The MAX32590 maximizes on-chip bandwidth when dealing  with  high-speed  communication  such  as  100Mbps Ethernet,  large  color  LCD  displays,  and  gigabit-sized mass storage devices.

In addition to hardware crypto functions, the MAX32590 provides a true random number generator, battery-backed RTC, nonvolatile SRAM, and real-time environmental and tamper-detection circuitry to facilitate system-level security for the application.

The secure microcontroller includes multiple communication  interfaces.  One  USB  host  controller  and  one  USB device  controller  with  their  respective  USB  transceiver, two smart card controllers, five SPI ports, three UARTs, an SD/SDHC/SDIO controller, an Ethernet 10/100 MAC with FIFO, and an I 2 C bus are also provided. The three on-chip  timers  also  support  PWM  output  generation  for direct  control  of  external  devices.  An  integrated  secure keypad  and  thermal  printer  interface  provide  an  integrated solution for mobile POS terminals. Additionally, a 3-channel, 10-bit ADC is provided for printer support and general use.

## Applications

- Electronic Commerce
- PCI Terminals
- PIN Pads
- ATM Keyboards
- EMV Card Readers
- Secure Access Control
- Secure Data Storage
- Pay-Per-Play
- Certificate Authentication
- Electronic Gaming

Note: Some revisions of this device may incorporate deviations from published specifications known as errata. Multiple revisions of any device may be simultaneously available through various sales channels. For information about device errata, go to: www.maximintegrated.com/errata .

19-6489; Rev 8; 11/20

DeepCover Secure Microcontroller with ARM926EJ-S Processor Core

## Features

- ARM926EJ-S™ Processor Core with 16KB Data Cache and 32KB Instruction Cache
- 384MHz Core Operating Frequency Through PLL (400MHz in Extended Frequency Mode)
- 192MHz Multilayer AHB Bus Matrix (200MHz in Extended Frequency Mode)
- 96MHz APB Bus Matrix (100MHz in Extended Frequency Mode)
- Security Features
- Secure Bootloader with Public Key Authentication
- AES, DES, and SHA Hardware Accelerators
- Modulo Arithmetic Hardware Accelerator (MAA) Supporting RSA, DSA, and ECDSA
- Secure Keypad Controller
-  Hardware True Random Number Generator
- Die Shield with Dynamic Fault Detection
- Six External Tamper Sensors with Independent Random Dynamic Patterns
- 256-Bit Flip-Flop-Based Nonvolatile AES Key Storage
- Temperature and Voltage Tamper Monitor
- Real-Time External Memory Encryption and Integrity Check
- Real-Time Clock
- 104-Bit Unique Serial Number (USN)
- Memory
-  384KB System SRAM
- 4KB Instruction TCM, 4KB Data TCM
-  24KB AES User-Encryptable NV SRAM
- Dual External Memory Controller (LPDDR400, SDRAM, SRAM, NOR Flash, NAND Flash)
-  2KB User-Programmable OTP
- NAND Flash Controller with Hardware ECC
- Power Management
- Flexible Clock Prescalers
- Clock Gating Function
- Low-Current Battery-Backup Operation
- Configurable Low-Power Modes

Features continued and Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

ARM926EJ-S is a trademark of ARM Limited.

DeepCover is a registered trademark of Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.

<!-- image -->

## MAX32590

## Functional Diagram

<!-- image -->

│

## ABRIDGED DATA SHEET

DepCover Secure Microntrole with ARM926EJ-S Processor Core

## ABRIDGED DATA SHEET

## MAX32590

## Additional Documentation

Designers must have the following documents to fully use all  the  features  of  this  device.  This  data  sheet  contains pin descriptions, feature overviews, and electrical specifications. Errata sheets contain deviations from published specifications. User guides contain detailed descriptions of  device  features  and  peripherals  from  a  programming perspective.

- This MAX32590 data sheet, which contains electrical/ timing specifications, package information, and pin descriptions.
- The MAX32590 revision-specific errata sheet.
- The MAX32590 User's Guide, which contains detailed information and programming guidelines for core features and peripherals.

## Development and Technical Support

Technical support is available at https://support. maximintegrated.com/micro .

## Features (continued)

- I/O and Peripherals
- USB 2.0 Host/Device with Internal Transceivers
- Three UART Ports/One I 2 C Port
- Five SPI Ports with I 2 S Functionality
- Two ISO 7816 Smart Card Interfaces
-  SD/SDHC/SDIO Interface
- 10/100Mbps Ethernet MAC Controller
- Thermal Printer Interface
- Three Timers with PWM Capability
- Up to 160 General-Purpose I/O Pins
- 3-Channel, 10-Bit ADC
- LCD Controller Supporting STN and TFT Displays
-  Monochrome LCD Controller
- 16-Channel DMA Controller
- Advanced Interrupt Controller

Note to readers: This  document  is  an  abridged  version  of  the  full  data  sheet. To  request  the  full  data  sheet,  go  to www.maximintegrated.com/MAX32590 and click on Request Full Data Sheet .

For pricing, delivery, and ordering information, please visit Maxim Integrated's online storefront at https://www.maximintegrated.com/en/storefront/storefront.html.

Maxim Integrated cannot assume responsibility for use of any circuitry other than circuitry entirely embodied in a Maxim Integrated product. No circuit patent licenses are LPSlLedGLYPH&lt;c=17,font=/VIQTKY+ArialMT&gt; Ma[LP ,nWegraWed reserYes WKe rLgKW Wo FKange WKe FLrFuLWr\ and sSeFLfiFaWLons wLWKouW noWLFe aW an\ WLP sKown Ln WKe (leFWrLFal CKaraFWerLsWLFs Wable are guaranWeedGLYPH&lt;c=17,font=/VIQTKY+ArialMT&gt; Other parametric values quoted in this data sheet are provided for guidance.

│

## DeepCover Secure Microcontroller with ARM926EJ-S Processor Core

## Ordering Information

| PART           | PACKAGE                 | JTAG   | PRODUCTION SECURITY         |
|----------------|-------------------------|--------|-----------------------------|
| MAX32590-LNS+* | 324 CSBGA (15mm x 15mm) | No     | Yes (Debug disabled)        |
| MAX32590-L5S+  | 324 CSBGA (15mm x 15mm) | No     | Yes (Debug disabled)        |
| MAX32590-LNJ+* | 324 CSBGA (15mm x 15mm) | Yes    | No (Prototype/ development) |
| MAX32590-L5J+  | 324 CSBGA (15mm x 15mm) | Yes    | No (Prototype/ development) |

## Package Information

For  the  latest  package  outline  information  and  land  patterns (footprints), go to www.maximintegrated.com/packages . Note that a '+', '#', or '-' in the package code indicates RoHS status only. Package drawings may show a different suffix character, but the drawing pertains to the package regardless of RoHS status.

| PACKAGE TYPE   | PACKAGE CODE   | OUTLINE NO.   | LAND PATTERN NO.   |
|----------------|----------------|---------------|--------------------|
| 324 CSBGA      | X32455+1       | 21-0601       | 90-0392            |