<!-- lastmod 2025-06-24 -->
## MAX6279

## General Description

The MAX6279 is a precision, two-terminal  shunt  mode, bandgap  voltage  reference  available  in  fixed  reverse breakdown  voltage  of  1.225V.  Ideal  for  space-critical applications, the MAX6279 is offered in an 8-Pin ceramic package.

Laser-trimmed  resistors  ensure  precise  initial  accuracy. With  a  25ppm/°C  temperature  coefficient,  the  device  is offered  in  three  grades  of  initial  accuracy  ranging  from 0.1% to 0.5%. The MAX6279 has a 70μA to 12mA shunt -current capability with low-dynamic impedance, ensuring stable reverse breakdown voltage accuracy over a wide range of operating temperatures and currents.

The  MAX6279  does  not  require  an  external  stabilizing capacitor  while  ensuring  stability  with  capacitive  loads. The  MAX6279  is  a  higher  precision  device  than  the LM4040/LM4050.

## Applications

- Portable, Battery-Powered Equipment
- Notebook Computers
- Cell Phones
- Industrial Process Control

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

## 0.1%, 25ppm, Ceramic Shunt Voltage Reference

## Benefits and Features

- 8-Pin Ceramic Package Reduces System Board Space
- Hermetically Sealed Ceramic Package Offers Stable Results vs. Time, Humidity and Temperature
- 0.1% (max) Initial Accuracy
- 25ppm/°C (max) Temperature Coefficient Guaranteed Over -40°C to +85°C Temperature Range
- Wide Operating Current Range: 70μA to 12mA
- Low 28μV RMS Output Noise (10Hz to 10kHz)
- No Output Capacitors Required
- Stable with Capacitive Loads

## Typical Operating Circuit

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

## MAX6279

## Absolute Maximum Ratings

| Reverse Current (cathode to anode)..................................20mA   |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Forward Current (anode to cathode)..................................10mA   |
| Continuous Power Dissipation (T A = +70°C)                                 |
| 8-Pin LCC (derate 10.3mW/°C above +70°C).............387mW                 |

## 0.1%, 25ppm, Ceramic Shunt Voltage Reference

| Operating Temperature Range........................... -40°C to +85°C            |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Storage Temperature Range............................ -65°C to +150°C            |
| Junction Temperature......................................................+150°C |
| Lead Temperature (soldering, 10s) .................................+300°C        |
| Soldering Temperature (reflow).......................................+260°C      |

Stresses beyond those listed under 'Absolute Maximum Ratings' may cause permanent damage to the device. These are stress ratings only, and functional operation of the device at these or any other conditions beyond those indicated in the operational sections of the specifications is not implied. Exposure to absolute maximum rating conditions for extended periods may affect device reliability.

## Electrical Characteristics-MAX6279\_12 (1.225V)

(I R = 100μA, T A  = -40°C to +85°C, unless otherwise noted. Typical values are at T A  = +25°C.) (Note 1)

| PARAMETER                                            | SYMBOL     | CONDITIONS                          | CONDITIONS                          | MIN     |    TYP | MAX     | UNITS   |
|------------------------------------------------------|------------|-------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|---------|--------|---------|---------|
| Reverse Breakdown Voltage (Note 2)                   | V R        | T A = +25°C                         | MAX6279A (0.1%)                     | 1.22377 |  1.225 | 1.22623 | V       |
| Minimum Operating Current                            | I RMIN     |                                     |                                     |         | 45     | 70      | µA      |
| Reverse Voltage Temperature Coefficient (Notes 2, 3) | TC         |                                     |                                     |         |  4     | 25      | ppm/°C  |
| Reverse Breakdown Voltage Change with Operating      | ∆V R /∆I R | I RMIN ≤ I R ≤ 1mA                  | I RMIN ≤ I R ≤ 1mA                  |         |  0.3   | 1.0     | mV      |
| Current Change                                       | ∆V R /∆I R | 1mA≤ I R ≤ 12mA                     | 1mA≤ I R ≤ 12mA                     |         |  2.5   | 13.0    | mV      |
| Reverse Dynamic Impedance (Note 3)                   | Z R        | I R = 1mA, f = 120Hz, I AC = 0.1I R | I R = 1mA, f = 120Hz, I AC = 0.1I R |         |  0.3   |         | Ω       |
| Wideband Noise                                       | e N        | I R = 10µA, 10Hz ≤ f ≤ 10kHz        | I R = 10µA, 10Hz ≤ f ≤ 10kHz        |         | 20     |         | µV RMS  |
| Reverse Breakdown Voltage                            | ∆V R       | t = 1000h                           | t = 1000h                           |         | 30     |         | ppm     |

Note 1: All devices are 100% production tested at +25°C and are guaranteed by correlation for T A  = T MAX  to T MIN , as specified.

Note 2: TC is measured by the 'box' method, i.e. (V MAX  - V MIN ) / (T MAX  - T MIN )

Note 3: Guaranteed by design.

│

## Typical Operating Characteristics

(IR = 100μA, T A  = +25°C, unless otherwise noted.)

REVERSE CHARACTERISTICS AND

MINIMUM OPERATING CURRENT

MAX6279\_12+

20

40

60

REVERSE CURRENT  (

µ

A)

MAX6279\_12

REVERSE VOLTAGE vs. ISHUNT

TA = +85°C

TA = +25°C

TA = -40°C

15

80

toc01

100

MAX6279 toc04

20

REVERSE VOLTAGE  (V)

REVERSE VOLTAGE CHANGE (mV)

1.6

1.4

1.2

1

0.8

0.6

0.4

0.2

0

5.0

4.5

4.0

3.5

3.0

2.5

2.0

1.5

1.0

0.5

0

0

0

5

10

ISHUNT (mA)

<!-- image -->

## 0.1%, 25ppm, Ceramic Shunt Voltage Reference

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

ISHUNT = 100µA ±25A

RL = 48k

Ω

<!-- image -->

│

## Typical Operating Characteristics (continued)

(IR = 100μA, T A  = +25°C, unless otherwise noted.)

Figure 1. Load-Transient Circuit

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

Figure 2. Startup Characteristics Test Circuit

<!-- image -->

│

## 0.1%, 25ppm, Ceramic Shunt Voltage Reference

## MAX6279

## Pin Configuration

<!-- image -->

## Pin Description

| PIN        | NAME   | FUNCTION                                                     |
|------------|--------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
| 6          | V REF  | Positive Terminal of the Shunt Reference                     |
| 4, 8       | GND    | Negative Terminal of the Shunt Reference                     |
| 2          | I.C.   | No Connection. Leave this pin unconnected or connect to GND. |
| 1, 3, 5, 7 | N.C.   | No Connection. Not connected internally.                     |

│

## 0.1%, 25ppm, Ceramic Shunt Voltage Reference

## MAX6279

## Detailed Description

The  MAX6279  shunt  reference uses the  bandgap principle to produce a stable, accurate voltage. The device behaves similarly to an ideal zener diode; a fixed voltage is  maintained  across  its  output  terminals  when  biased with  70μA  to  12mA  of  reverse  current.  The  MAX6279 behaves  similarly  to  a  silicon  diode  when  biased  with forward currents up to 10mA.

Figure 3 shows a typical operating circuit. The MAX6279 is  ideal  for  providing  a  stable  reference  from  a  highvoltage power supply.

## Applications Information

The MAX6279's internal pass transistor  is  used  to  maintain a  constant  output  voltage  (V SHUNT )  by  sinking  the necessary  amount  of  current  across  a  source  resistor. The source resistance (R S ) is determined from the load current  (I LOAD )  range,  supply  voltage  (V S )  variations, VSHUNT, and desired quiescent current.

Choose the value  of  R S   when  V S   is  at  a  minimum  and I LOAD is at a maximum. Maintain a minimum I SHUNT  of 70μA at all times. The R S value should be large enough to keep I SHUNT  less than 12mA for proper regulation when VS is maximum and I LOAD  is at a minimum. To prevent damage to the device, I SHUNT  should never exceed 20mA.

Therefore,  the  value  of  R S   is  bounded  by  the  following equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Choosing a larger  resistance  minimizes  the  total  power dissipation  in  the  circuit  by  reducing  the  shunt  current (P D(TOTAL)  = V S  X I SHUNT ). Provide a safety margin to

## 0.1%, 25ppm, Ceramic Shunt Voltage Reference

incorporate the worst-case tolerance of the resistor used. Ensure that the resistor's power rating is adequate, using the following general power equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

## Output Capacitance

The  MAX6279  does  not  require  an  external  capacitor  for operational stability and is stable for any output capacitance.

## Temperature Performance

The  MAX6279  typically exhibits an output voltage temperature coefficient within ±4ppm/°C. The polarity of the  temperature  coefficient  may  be  different  from  one device to another; some may have positive coefficients, and others may have negative coefficients.

Figure 3. Typical Operating Circuit

<!-- image -->

│

## MAX6279

## The MAX6279 in Ceramic LCC Package

The  MAX6279's  ceramic  LCC  package  is  a  hermetic ceramic package that gives substantially better performance than plastic, while at the same time is a small, surfacemount  package.  The  MAX6279  die  is  packaged  in  this ceramic  8-LCC  package  that  prevents  the  reference voltage from getting mechanical disturbances from humid environments,  improving  long-term  drift  and  thermal hysteresis. The MAX6279's Ceramic LCC package shows excellent output long-term drift of 30ppm (Figure 4).

Thermal Hysteresis is also improved in the Ceramic LCC package. Hysteresis is the change in the output voltage is created by mechanical stress that applied to the device depending  on  whether  it  was  previously  at  a  higher  or

## 0.1%, 25ppm, Ceramic Shunt Voltage Reference

lower temperature. Output voltage is always measured at TA = +25°C before and after the device is cycled over its entire operating temperature range. The MAX6279 has a typical hysteresis value of 60ppm.

Even  though  the  hermitically-sealed  ceramic  MAX6279 prevents  the  reference  output  from  getting  mechanical disturbances from humid environments, the PC board can be affected by humidity, and in turn causes mechanical stress to the MAX6279 being mounted on it. Proper board layout is critical for best stability and performance. Refer to  the  MAX6279  EV  kit  data  sheet  for  recommended layout guidelines and power supply bypassing.

Figure 4. Output Voltage Long-Term Drift of the MAX6279 in Ceramic LCC Package

<!-- image -->

│

## Ordering Information

| PART           |   OUTPUT VOLTAGE (V) |   INITIAL ACCURACY (%) | TEMP RANGE     | PIN-PACKAGE   | TOP MARK   |
|----------------|----------------------|------------------------|----------------|---------------|------------|
| MAX6279ELA12+T |                1.225 |                    0.1 | -40°C to +85°C | 8 LCC         | ADZA       |

## Chip Information

TRANSISTOR COUNT: 70 PROCESS: BiCMOS

## Package Information

For  the  latest  package  outline  information  and  land  patterns (footprints), go to www.maximintegrated.com/packages . Note that a '+', '#', or '-' in the package code indicates RoHS status only. Package drawings may show a different suffix character, but the drawing pertains to the package regardless of RoHS status.

| PACKAGE TYPE   | PACKAGE CODE   | OUTLINE NO.   | LAND PATTERN NO.   |
|----------------|----------------|---------------|--------------------|
| 8 LCC          | L8+1           | 21-100203     | 90-100085          |

## 0.1%, 25ppm, Ceramic Shunt Voltage Reference

## MAX6279

## Revision History

|   REVISION NUMBER | REVISION DATE   | DESCRIPTION             | PAGES CHANGED   |
|-------------------|-----------------|-------------------------|-----------------|
|                 0 | 10/18           | Initial release         | -               |
|                 1 | 3/19            | Updated Pin Description | 5               |

For pricing, delivery, and ordering information, please visit Maxim Integrated's online storefront at https:/w.maximintegrated.com/en/storefront/storefront.html.

Maxim Integrated cannot assume responsibility for use of any circuitry other than circuitry entirely embodied in a Maxim Integrated product. No circuit patent licenses are implied. Maxim ,ntegrated reserves the right to change the circuitry and specifications Zithout notice at any time. The parametric values GLYPH&lt;c=11,font=/WYQDDQ+Arial-ItalicMT&gt;min and max limitsGLYPH&lt;c=12,font=/WYQDDQ+Arial-ItalicMT&gt; shoZn in the Electrical Characteristics table are guaranteed. Other parametric values quoted in this data sheet are provided for guidance.

<!-- image -->

│

## 0.1%, 25ppm, Ceramic Shunt Voltage Reference