<!-- lastmod 2026-01-23 -->
<!-- image -->

## 21V, 3.5A/5.5A 1-Cell Li+ Battery Charger with

## USB Type-C/BC1.2 Detection

## General Description

The MAX77884/MAX77885 is a high-performance, highinput 3.5/5.5A fast charger with Smart Power Selector TM .  The  IC  can  operate  as  a  reverse  boost without  an  additional  inductor,  allowing  the  battery  to share  its  power  through  the  charging  port,  and  offers programmable  output  voltage  from  4.3V  to  12V.  The device features fully integrated low-loss power switches to provide a small solution size and high efficiency, even at high input voltage and high charging current. Its high switching  frequency  allows  the  use  of  a  smaller-sized inductor.  The  IC  features  true  load  disconnection  in reverse-boost  mode  and  an  adjustable  output-current protection limit. The device is highly flexible and programmable  through  I 2 C  configuration.  Li-ion,  Lipolymer, and LiFePO4 battery chemistries are supported.  It  can  also  provide  fast,  programmable, unplugged source detection for dynamic management of system load. To support a variety of legacy USB and proprietary adapters, the device also integrates BC1.2 detection using the D+ and D- pins.

The battery charger includes a Smart Power Selector to accommodate various battery sizes and system loads. The Smart Power Selector allows the system to start up gracefully when an input source is available, even when the  battery  is  deeply  discharged  (dead  battery)  or missing. It can be configured so that the battery charging can  automatically  start  when  power  is  applied  to  the charger input.

## Applications

- Gaming Devices
- VR Applications
- mPOS
- Tablet PCs

Smart Power Selector is a trademark of Maxim Integrated Products, Inc. USB Type-C is a registered trademark of USB Implementers Forum, Inc. Power Path is a trademark of Linear Technology Corporation.

Visit Web Support to complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

19-102050; Rev 0; 11/25

MAX77884/MAX77885

## Benefits and Features

- High-Efficiency Single-Cell Switching Charger
- Up to 5.5A Charging with MAX77885
- Up to 3.5A Charging with MAX77884
- +26V Absolute Maximum Input Voltage Rating
- 4.4V to 21V Input Operating Voltage Range
- Reverse Boost with Programmable Output Voltage Options from 4.3V to 12V
- Up to 18W with MAX77785
- Up to 12W with MAX77884
- Integrated Battery True-Disconnect FET
- RDSON = 7.7mΩ
- Programmable Discharge Current Limit up to 10A
- Shipping Mode and Low Battery Leakage Current
- 0.9MHz Switching Frequency with 1.5μH Inductor
- 1.3MHz Switching Frequency with 1μH Inductor
- Safety
- Battery Temperature Sensing and Charge Safety Timer
- JEITA Guideline Compliant
- Thermal Regulation and Thermal Shutdown
- System Voltage OVLO/UVLO
- Integrated CC Detection for USB Type-C (MAX77884/MAX77885)
- USB Switch with BC1.2 Detection
- Spread Spectrum for Noise-Sensitive Applications
- Charge Status Output for LED
- Push-Button Input for Exiting from Ship Mode
- Programmable Unplug Detection Output
- I 2 C Interface
- 3.03mm x 2.96mm Wafer-Level Package (WLP)

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

## MAX77884/MAX77885

## Simplified Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

## Typical Operating Characteristics

(T A  = +25°C, unless otherwise noted.)

<!-- image -->

## MAX77884/MAX77885

## Ordering Information

| PART NUMBER    | TEMP RANGE     |   MAX FAST- CHARGE CURRENT (A) |   INDUCTOR CURRENT LIMIT (A) |   REVERSE BOOST POWER CEILING (W) | PIN-PACKAGE                             | DEFAULT MODE[3:0]   |
|----------------|----------------|--------------------------------|------------------------------|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|---------------------|
| MAX77884AEWJ+  | -40°C to +85°C |                            3.5 |                          9   |                                12 | 7 x 7 WLP, 0.4mm Pitch, 3.03mm x 2.96mm | 0X4                 |
| MAX77884AEWJ+T | -40°C to +85°C |                            3.5 |                          9   |                                12 | 7 x 7 WLP, 0.4mm Pitch, 3.03mm x 2.96mm | 0X4                 |
| MAX77885AEWJ+  | -40°C to +85°C |                            5.5 |                         12.8 |                                18 | 7 x 7 WLP, 0.4mm Pitch, 3.03mm x 2.96mm | 0X4                 |
| MAX77885AEWJ+T | -40°C to +85°C |                            5.5 |                         12.8 |                                18 | 7 x 7 WLP, 0.4mm Pitch, 3.03mm x 2.96mm | 0X4                 |

## 21V, 3.5A/5.5A 1-Cell Li+ Battery Charger with USB Type-C/BC1.2 Detection

MAX77884/MAX77885

NOTES

<!-- image -->

21V, 3.5A/5.5A 1-Cell Li+ Battery Charger with USB Type-C/BC1.2 Detection

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All Analog Devices products contained herein are subject to release and availability.