<!-- lastmod 2023-10-24 -->
<!-- image -->

## MAX86165

## General Description

The MAX86165 is an ultra-low-power, completely integrated,  optical  data  acquisition  system.  On  the  transmitter side, the MAX86165 has a programmable low-noise LED driver with an IR emitter. On the receiver side, MAX86165 consists of a high efficiency PIN photodiode and an optical readout channel. The optical readout has a low-noise signal  conditioning  analog  front  end  (AFE),  including  20-bit analog -to -digital converter (ADC) and an industry-leading ambient  light  cancellation  (ALC)  circuit.  Due  to  the  low power consumption, compact size, ease and flexibility of use, the MAX86165 is ideal for a wide variety of optical sensing  applications  such  as  heart  rate  detection  and proximity sensing in small spaces such as ear buds.

The MAX86165 operates on a single 2.7V to 5.5V V LED supply voltage. Each device has a 128-word built-in FIFO. The  MAX86165 is  available  in  a  10-pin  OLGA  package with  compact  package  dimensions  of  2mm  x  2.5mm  x 0.82mm and operates over -40ºC to +85ºC temperature range.

## Applications

- Optimized for In-Ear Applications
- AR/VR Glasses
- Miniature Package for Mobile Applications

## Simplified Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

## ABRIDGED DATA SHEET

Click here to ask an associate for production status of specific part numbers.

## Miniature Optical Heart Rate Module

## Benefits and Features

- Complete Single-Channel Optical Data Acquisition System in a Tiny Module
- Optimized Architecture for Reflective Heart Rate Monitoring
- Integrated Infrared Proximity Sensing
- Optimized Performance to Detect Continuous Monitoring for Heart Rate Variability (HRV)
- High-Resolution 20-bit Charge Integrating ADC
- Low-Noise 8-Bit LED Current DAC
- Excellent Signal to Noise Ratio (SNR) up to 94.5dB in White Card Loop-Back Test
- Excellent Ambient Range and Rejection
- Up to 200μA Ambient DC Current
- 80dB Ambient Rejection at 120Hz
- Ultra Low-Power Operation for Wearable Devices
- Miniature 2mm x 2.5mm x 0.82mm 10-pin OLGA Package

MAX86165

<!-- image -->

## ABRIDGED DATA SHEET

Miniature Optical Heart Rate Module

Information  furnished  by  Analog  Devices  is  believed  to  be  accurate  and  reliable.  However,  no  responsibility  is assumed by Analog Devices for its use, nor for any infringements of patents or other rights of third parties that may result from its use. Specifications subject to change without notice. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of Analog Devices. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

2