<!-- lastmod 2023-12-01 -->
<!-- image -->

## General Description

The MAX86178 is a highly integrated, multiple vital-sign monitoring  device  with  a  complete  photoplethysmogram  (PPG), electrocardiogram (ECG) and biopotential (BioZ) analog front end  (AFE)  for  wearable  applications.  The  MAX86178  offers high  performance  for  wellness  and  clinical  applications  with low power for long battery life.

The PPG data acquisition system supports up to 6 LEDs and 4 photodiode inputs. The LEDs are programmable from two high-current,  8-bit  LED  drivers.  The  receive  path  has  two low-noise, high-resolution readout channels that each include independent 20-bit ADCs and industry-leading  ambient  light cancellation (ALC) circuits, producing the highest performing integrated optical data acquisition system on the market today.

The  ECG  channel  has  EMI  filtering,  internal  lead  biasing, right-leg  drive,  and  extensive  calibration  voltages  for  built-in self-test.  The  ECG  channel  also  has  high-input  impedance, low noise, high CMRR, programmable gain, an anti-aliasing low-pass  filter,  and  a  high-resolution ADC.  It  is  designed  to meet IEC 60601-2-47 Ambulatory ECG Systems monitoring compliance requirements.

The  BioZ  receive  channel  has  EMI  filtering  and  extensive calibration features. The BioZ receive channel also has high input  impedance,  low  noise,  programmable  gain,  low-pass and high-pass filter options, and a high-resolution ADC. There are  several  modes  for  generating  input  stimulus:  balanced square-wave source/sink current, sine-wave current, and both sine-wave and square-wave voltage stimuli. A wide range of stimulus magnitudes and frequencies is available.

The  MAX86178  has  DC  and AC  lead-off  detection,  a  flexible timing system, and a PLL. All three sensor channels are synchronized. The MAX86178 is available in a 7 x 7 49-bump wafer-level  package  (WLP)  with  package  dimensions  of 2.77mm  x  2.57mm,  and  operates  over  -40ºC  to  +85ºC temperature range.

## Applications

- Wearable Vital-Sign Monitors
- Ambulatory Heart Rate Monitors
- Pulse-Oximetry Devices
- Smart-Clothing Applications
- Impedance Cardiography/Hemodynamic Monitors
- Single- and Multi-Frequency Bioimpedance Analysis
- Pulse Arrival Time (PAT), Pulse Transit Time (PTT), Pulse Wave Velocity (PWV) Assessments

Visit  Web Support to complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

Rev. 4

DOCUMENT FEEDBACK

TECHNICAL SUPPORT

## Data Sheet MAX86178

## Ultra-Low-Power, Clinical-Grade Vital-Sign AFE

## Benefits and Features

## PPG

- Dual-Channel Optical Data-Acquisition System
- 113dB SpO2  System SNR
- Excellent Ambient Range and Rejection Capability
- &gt; 200μA Ambient Photodetector Current
- &gt; 90dB Ambient Rejection at 120Hz with Averaging

## ECG

- Clinical Grade ECG Acquisition System
- 15.3 ENOB with 0.72μV RMS (0.05Hz to 40Hz)
- 230fA RMS  Input-Current Noise (0.05Hz to 40Hz, +25°C)
- Fully Differential Signal with CMRR &gt; 110dB at 50Hz and 60Hz
- High Input Impedance &gt; 1GΩ for Extremely Low Common-to-Differential Mode Conversion
- High DC-Differential Input Range of ±1000mV (typ 1.8V) Allows a Wide Variety of Electrodes to be Used
- High AC-Dynamic Range of 200mV P-P  Prevents Saturation Due to Motion, or Varying Half-Cell Potentials

## BIOZ

- High-Performance BioZ Data Acquisition System
- Low-Noise BioZ Receive Channel (17 ENOB, 0.16μVRMS)
- Sine-Wave, Square-Wave, Current and Voltage Stimulus (16Hz to 500kHz)
- BIA/BIS Measurement with High Absolute Resistance and Reactance Accuracy

## SYSTEM

- Ultra-Low-Power Systems for Wearable Devices
- DC and AC Lead-Off Detect Capability
- Shutdown Current of 0.5μA (typ)
- 256-Word FIFO for ECG, PPG, and BioZ
- Flexible Interrupt and Multi-AFE Synchronization
- FIFO Timing Data Allows Synchronized PPG, ECG, and BioZ

<!-- image -->