<!-- lastmod 2023-12-15 -->
<!-- image -->

## MAX86174A/MAX86174B

## ABRIDGED DATA SHEET

Click here to ask an associate for production status of specific part numbers.

## Best-in-Class Optical Pulse Oximeter and Heart-Rate Sensor AFE for Wearable Health

## General Description

The MAX86174A/MAX86174B are ultra-low-power optical data  acquisition  systems  with  both  transmit  and  receive channels. On  the  transmitter  side,  the  MAX86174A/ MAX86174B have four LED driver output pins. Each pin is programmable from two, high-current, 8-bit LED drivers. On the receiver side, the MAX86174A consists of two optical  readout  channels  that  can  operate  simultaneously while the MAX86174B has a single optical readout channel. The devices have low-noise, charge-integrating analog front-end, 20-bit ADC, and best-in-class ambient-light cancellation (ALC) circuits.

Due to the low power consumption, compact size, ease and  flexibility  of  use,  the  MAX86174A/MAX86174B  are ideal for a wide variety of optical sensing applications such as pulse oximetry and heart-rate detection.

The  MAX86174A/MAX86174B  operate  on  a  1.8V  main supply  voltage  and  a  2.7V  to  5.5V  LED  driver  supply voltage. The devices support both I 2 C- and SPI-compatible  interfaces  in  a  fully  autonomous  way.  The  devices have  a  large  256-word  built-in  FIFO.  The  MAX86174A/ MAX86174B are available in a compact 16-WLP package.

## Applications

- Wearable Devices for Fitness, Wellness and Medical Applications
- Clinical Accuracy
- Suitable for Wrist, Finger, Ear, and Other Locations
- Optimized Performance to Detect
- Optical Heart Rate
- Heart-Rate Variability
- Oxygen Saturation (SpO 2 )
- Body Hydration
- Muscle and Tissue Oxygen Saturation (SmO 2  and StO 2 )
- Maximum Oxygen Consumption (VO2 Max)

## Benefits and Features

- Complete Optical Data Acquisition System
- Ultra-Low-Power Operation for Body Wearable Devices
- Low-Power-Operation, Optical Readout Channel &lt; 11μA (typ) at 25fps
- Exposure Integration Period Ranging from 14.6μs to 117.1μs
- Low Shutdown Current &lt; 1μA (typ)
- Excellent Top-End Dynamic Range &gt; 93dB in White Card Loop-Back Test (Nyquist Sample-to-Sample Variance)
- Extended Dynamic Range up to 111dB (Averaging and Off-Chip Filtering) to Enable SpO 2  on Wrist/Chest for Low Perfusion Cases
- Support Frame Rates from 1fps to 2048fps
- High-Resolution 20-Bit Charge-Integrating ADCs
- Support Both Burst Averaging and Decimation Averaging Modes
- On-Chip 12Hz Low-Pass Filter for Improved SNR and Reduced Power for Continuous Heart-Rate Measurement
- Supports Two PD Inputs for Multi-Parameter Measurements
- Supports Four LED Driver Output Pins Generated from Two 8-Bit LED Current Drivers
- Low Dark-Current Noise of &lt; 50pA RMS  (Sample-toSample Variance in 117.1μs Integration Time)
- Excellent Ambient Range and Rejection Capability
- 200μA Ambient Photodiode Current
- &gt; 70dB Ambient Rejection at 120Hz (Burst Average &gt; 2)
- Miniature 1.67mm x 1.78mm, 0.4mm Ball Pitch, 4 x 4 WLP Package
- -40°C to +85°C Operating Temperature Range

19-100999; Rev 2; 7/23

## MAX86174A/MAX86174B

## Revision History

|   REVISION NUMBER | REVISION DATE   | DESCRIPTION                                                                                                           | PAGES CHANGED          |
|-------------------|-----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------|
|                 0 | 2/21            | Release for Market Intro                                                                                              | -                      |
|                 1 | 2/22            | Updated General Description , Benefits and Features , Absolute Maximum Ratings , and Electrical Characteristics table | 1, 7, 9, 38, 39, 40    |
|                 2 | 7/23            | Updated Detailed Description , Register Map, and Figure 21                                                            | 17, 23, 33, 61, 80, 40 |

<!-- image -->

## A BRIDGED DATA SHEET

Best-in-Class Optical Pulse Oximeter and Heart-Rate Sensor AFE for Wearable Health