<!-- lastmod 2025-10-08 -->
<!-- image -->

## General Description

The MAX86170B is an ultra-low-power optical data acquisition system with both transmit and receive channels. On the transmitter side, the MAX86170B has four LED driver output pins, programmable from three high-current, 8-bit LED drivers. On the receiver side, MAX86170B has a low-noise charge integrating front-end that includes a 20-bit ADC and best-in-class ambient light cancellation (ALC) circuit, producing the highest performing integrated optical data acquisition system on the market today.

Due to its  low  power  consumption,  compact  size,  ease-and flexibility-of-use, the MAX86170B is ideal for a wide variety of optical sensing applications such as pulse oximetry and heart rate detection.

The MAX86170B operates on a 1.8V main supply voltage and a 3.1V to 5.5V LED driver supply voltage. The device supports both I 2 C- and SPI-compatible interfaces in a fully autonomous way.  The  device  has  a  large  256-word  built-in  FIFO.  The MAX86170B is available in a compact WLP package 2.78mm x 1.71mm with 6 x 4, 0.4mm ball pitch.

## Applications

- Wearable Devices for Fitness, Wellness, and Medical Applications
- Clinical Accuracy
- Suitable for Wrist, Finger, Ear, and Other Locations
- Optimized Performance to Detect:
- Optical Heart Rate
- Heart-Rate Variability
- Oxygen Saturation (SpO 2 )
- Body Hydration
- Muscle and Tissue Oxygen Saturation (SmO2 and StO 2 )
- Maximum Oxygen Consumption (VO 2  max)

Visit  Web Support to complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

Rev. 2

DOCUMENT FEEDBACK

TECHNICAL SUPPORT

## Data Sheet MAX86170B

## Low-Noise AFE for Pulse Oximeter and Heart Rate Monitor

## Benefits and Features

- Complete Single-Channel Optical Data Acquisition System
- Ultra Low-Power Operation for Wearable Devices
- Low-Power Operation, Optical Readout Channel &lt; 11μA at 25fps
- Exposure Integration Period Ranging from 14.6μs to 117.1μs
- Low Shutdown Current &lt; 1μA
- Excellent Top-End Dynamic Range &gt; 91dB in White Card Loop-Back Test (Nyquist Sample-to-Sample Variance)
- Extended Dynamic Range up to 109dB (Averaging and Off-Chip Filtering)
- Supports Frame Rates from 1fps to 2.9kfps
- High Resolution 20-Bit Charge Integrating ADC
- Supports Two PD Inputs for Multiparameter Measurements
- Supports Four LED Driver Output Pins Generated from Three 8-Bit LED Current Drivers
- Low Dark Current Noise of &lt; 50pA RMS (Sample to Sample Variance in 117.1μs Integration Time)
- Excellent Ambient Range and Rejection Capability
- 200μA Ambient Photodiode Current
- &gt; 70dB Ambient Rejection at 120Hz
- Miniature 2.78mm x 1.71mm, 6 x 4, 0.4mm Ball Pitch WLP Package
- -40°C to +85°C Operating Temperature Range

<!-- image -->