<!-- lastmod 2023-11-22 -->
<!-- image -->

## Data Sheet MAX9286

## Quad 1.5Gbps GMSL Deserializer with Coax or STP Input and CSI-2 Output

## General Description

The MAX9286 Gigabit multimedia serial link (GMSL) deserializer receives data from up to four GMSL serializers over 50Ω coax or 100Ω shielded twisted-pair (STP) cables and output data on four CSI-2 lanes. Each serial link has an embedded control channel operating from 9.6kbps to 1Mbps in UART-toUART, UART-to-I 2 C, and I 2 Cto-I 2 C  mode.  Using  the  control channel, a μC can program the serializers, deserializer, and peripheral device registers at any time, independent of video timing. A  maskable  broadcast  write  speeds  programming  of image sensor registers.

For use with longer cables, the deserializer has a program -mable cable equalizer and programmable error detection and correction. The serial input meets ISO 10605 and IEC 610004-2 ESD standards. The core supply is 1.7V to 1.9V and the I/O supply is 1.7V to 3.6V.

The device is available in lead(Pb)-free, 56-pin, 8mm x 8mm SWTQFN and TQFN packages with exposed pad and 0.5mm lead pitch.

## Applications

- Surround View Camera Systems
- Machine Vision Systems
- 3D Camera Systems

## Simplified Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

Visit  Web Support to complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

Rev. 4

<!-- image -->

## Benefits and Features

- Ideal for Multicamera Stream Applications
- Works with Low-Cost 50Ω Coax Cable and FAKRA Connectors or 100Ω STP
- Data from Image Sensors Are Synchronized to the Same Pixel
- Automatic Internal/External Generation of Camera Sync
- Equalization Allows 15m Length Cable Operation at Full Speed
- Multiple Input/Output Features for System Flexibility
- 1 to 4 Lane CSI-2 Output with 80Mbps to 1200Mbps Per Lane
- Swappable/Selectable Serial Input/Output with Swap -pable Polarity
- 9.6kbps to 1Mbps Control Channel in UART, Mixed UART/I 2 C, or I 2 C Mode with Clock-Stretch Capability
- Peripheral Features for System Power-Up and Verification
- Built-In PRBS Tester for BER Testing of the Serial Link
- Programmable Choice of Nine Default Device Addresses
- Two Dedicated GPIO Ports
- High-Immunity Mode for Maximum Control-Channel Noise Rejection
- Meets Rigorous Automotive and Industrial Requirements
- -40°C to +105°C Operating Temperature
- ±8kV Contact, ±20kV Air ISO 10605 and ±8kV Contact, ±12kV IEC 61000-4-2 ESD Protection

<!-- image -->