<!-- lastmod 2024-09-13 -->
<!-- image -->

## Data Sheet MAX96715

## 13-Bit GMSL Serializer with High-Imunity/Bandwidth Mode and Coax/STP Cable Drive

## General Description

The  MAX96715  is  a  compact  serializer  in  a  4mm  x  4mm TQFN package especially suited for automotive camera applications. In high-bandwidth mode, the parallel-clock maximum is 116MHz for 12-bit linear or combined HDR data types.

The embedded control channel operates at 9.6kbps to 1Mbps in I 2 C mode, allowing programming of serializer, deserializer (SerDes), and camera registers independent of video timing.

For  driving  longer  cables,  the  IC  has  programmable  pre-/ de-emphasis. Programmable spread spectrum is available on the serial output. The serial output meets ISO 10605 and IEC 61000-4-2 ESD standards. The core supply range is 1.7V to 1.9V, and the I/O supply range is 1.7V to 3.6V.

The MAX96715 is available in a 24-pin TQFN package with 0.5mm  lead  pitch,  and  operates  over  the  -40°C  to  +115°C temperature range.

## Applications

- Automotive Camera Applications

## Simplified Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

## Benefits and Features

- Ideal for Safety Camera Applications
- Works with Low-Cost 50Ω Coax (100Ω STP) Cables
- Error Detection of Video/Control Data
- High-Immunity Mode for Robust Control-Channel EMC Tolerance
- Retransmission of Control Data Upon Error Detection
- Best-in-Class Supply Current: 88mA (max)
- Pre-/De-emphasis Allows 15m Cable at Full Speed
-  24-Pin (4mm x 4mm) TQFN Package with 0.5mm Lead Pitch
- High-Speed Data Serialization for Megapixel Cameras
- Up to 1.74Gbps Serial-Bit Rate
- 12.5MHz to 116MHz x 12-Bit + H/V Data through Internal Encoding
- Multiple Modes for System Flexibility
- 9.6kbps to 1Mbps Control Channel in I 2 C Mode (with Clock Stretch)
- Crosspoint Switch Accepts Any Input Bitmap
-  Modes for Encoded VSYNC and HSYNC
- Reduces EMI and Shielding Requirements
-  Programmable Output Spread Spectrum
- Tracks Spread Spectrum Applied at the Parallel Input
- 1.7V to 3.6V I/O Supply
- Peripheral Features for Camera Power-Up and Verification
- Built-In PRBS Generator for BER Testing
- Dedicated GPO for Camera Frame-Sync Trigger and Other Uses
-  Remote/Local Wake-Up from Sleep Mode
- Meets AEC-Q100 Automotive Specification
- -40°C to +115°C Operating Temperature
- ±8kV Contact and ±15kV Air IEC 61000-4-2 and ISO 10605 ESD Protection

Visit  Web Support to complete the nondisclosure agreement (NDA) required to receive additional product information.

Rev. 4

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->