<!-- lastmod 2023-02-14 -->
MAXQ1010

## General Description

DeepCover® embedded security solutions cloak sensitive data under multiple layers of advanced physical security to provide the most secure key storage possible.

The  DeepCover  Secure  Microcontroller  (MAXQ1010) is  a  small,  low-cost,  low-power  secure  microcontroller designed  for  security  token  applications  and  batterypowered applications where power and security are both critically important.

The  microcontroller  contains  a  128KB  programmable flash memory that can be used for both application code and  data  storage.  Each  512B  flash  memory  page  supports 20,000 erase cycles and is programmable 16 bits at a time. This allows for unique schemes to extend the lifetime of the flash. For instance, dedicating four flash pages to store 32B of data that changes very often, the effective number of write cycles can approach 1.2 million (4 x 512 x  20,000/32). The  device  also  contains  2KB  SRAM. An additional  128B  secure  key  storage  SRAM  is  instantly erased when a self-destruct input is detected.

The microcontroller also contains a hardware DES engine and an AES accelerator, allowing applications to quickly respond  to  challenges  and  authenticate  other  devices using  standards-based  cryptography.  A  true-hardware random-number generator (RNG) is available for general application use, such as key generation, challenge generation,  and  random  padding.  Firmware  and  reference designs are available from Maxim Integrated for authentication applications.

Multiple  communication  interfaces  are  implemented:  an integrated  USB  transceiver  and  serial  interface  engine make USB applications extremely low cost; also included are an ISO 7816 UART, SPI, I 2 C, and a standard USART (universal  synchronous/asynchronous  receiver-transmitter). A real-time clock (RTC) is also included for security applications requiring a time base.

For  the  ultimate  in  low-power  battery-operated  performance,  an  ultra-low-power  stop  mode  (400nA  typ)  is included. In this mode, the minimum amount of circuitry is powered. Wake-up sources include external interrupts, the power-fail interrupt, a wake-up timer interrupt, and an RTC interrupt.

## Applications

- One-Time Password Generator
- USB Card Readers

DeepCover, MAXQ, and 1-Wire are registered trademarks of Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.

19-5259; Rev 1; 7/13

## DeepCover Secure Microcontroller with RTC and USB for Secure Tokens

## Features

- High-Performance, Low-Power, 16-Bit RISC Core
- DC to 12MHz Operation Across Entire Operating Range
- 6MHz Internal Oscillator
- 12MHz External Crystal (Required for USB Operation)
- 1.7V to 3.6V Operating Voltage Range
- Three Independent Data Pointers Accelerate Data Movement with Automatic Increment/Decrement
- Dedicated Pointer for Direct Read from Code Space
- 16-Bit Instruction Word, 16-Bit Data Bus
- 1-Wire ® Interface for Debugger and Flash Programming
- Security Features
- DES and AES Hardware Accelerators
-  Hardware True RNG
- Self-Destruct Input Pin
- 128B, Fast Wipe, Secure Secret Key SRAM
- RTC with Integrated Oscillator
- Memory
- 128KB Flash 512-Byte Memory Page Sectors

20,000 Erase/Write Cycles per Sector

-  2KB Data SRAM
- Dedicated Utility ROM with User-Callable Routines
- I/O and Peripherals
- USB 2.0 SIE and Transceiver
- SPI, USART, and I 2 C Communication Ports
-  ISO 7816 UART
- Two 16-Bit Timers
- 31 General-Purpose I/O Pins
- Up to 15 External Interrupts Available
- Low Power Consumption
- Single 1.7V to 3.6V Supply
- &lt; 1µA Current in Lowest Power Stop Mode
- Divided System Clock Modes Available
- Additional Peripherals
- Power-Fail Warning
-  Power-On Reset (POR)
-  Programmable Watchdog Timer

For related parts and recommended products to use with this part, refer to www.maximintegrated.com/MAXQ1010.related .

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

<!-- image -->

## MAXQ1010

## Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

Note to readers: This  document  is  an  abridged  version  of  the  full  data  sheet. To  request  the  full  data  sheet,  go  to www.maximintegrated.com/MAXQ1010 and click on Request Full Data Sheet .

For pricing, delivery , and ordering information, please conta Maxim Direct at 1-888-629-4642, or visit Maxim Integrated's website at w.maximintegrated.com

Maxim Integrated canot asume responibility for use of any circuitry other than circuitry entirely embodied in a Maxim Integrated product. No circuit patent licenses DUHGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/PIKGVE+ArialMT&gt; LPSOLHGGLYPH&lt;c=17,font=/PIKGVE+ArialMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/PIKGVE+ArialMT&gt; 0D[LPGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/PIKGVE+ArialMT&gt; ,QWHJUDWHGGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/PIKGVE+ArialMT&gt; UHVHUYHVGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/PIKGVE+ArialMT&gt;WKHGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/PIKGVE+ArialMT&gt;ULJKWGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/PIKGVE+ArialMT&gt;WRGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/PIKGVE+ArialMT&gt; FKDQJHGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/PIKGVE+ArialMT&gt; WKHGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/PIKGVE+ArialMT&gt; FLUFXLWU\GLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/PIKGVE+ArialMT&gt;DQGGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/PIKGVE+ArialMT&gt; VS VKRZQGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/PIKGVE+ArialMT&gt;LQGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/PIKGVE+ArialMT&gt;WKHGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/PIKGVE+ArialMT&gt;(OHFWULFDOGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/PIKGVE+ArialMT&gt;&amp;KDUDFWHULVWLFVGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/PIKGVE+ArialMT&gt;WDEOHGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/PIKGVE+ArialMT&gt;DUHGLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/PIKGVE+ArialMT&gt;JXDUDQWHHGGLYPH&lt;c=17,font=/PIKGVE+ArialMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/PIKGVE+ArialMT&gt; Other parametric values quoted in this dat sheet are provided for guidance.

<!-- image -->

│

## DeepCover Secure Microcontroller with RTC and USB for Security Tokens