<!-- lastmod 2023-02-14 -->
## ABRIDGED DATA SHET

<!-- image -->

## MAXQ1050

## DeepCover Secure Microcontroller with USB and Hardware Cryptography

## General Description

DeepCover™ embedded security solutions cloak sensitive  data  under  multiple  layers  of  advanced  physical security to provide the most secure key storage possible.

The  DeepCover  Secure  Microcontroller  (MAXQ1050) was  designed  for  USB  secure  token  and  smart  card reader  applications  that  require  certificate-based  or other  public  key  cryptographic  schemes.  The  device also  incorporates  a  sophisticated  security  mechanism to  protect secret key data; two self-destruct inputs and environmental  monitors  (temperature  and  voltage  sensors) erase secret key data when an attack condition is detected. The device has an integrated full-speed USB device  interface  (including  transceiver),  hardware  SPI controller, and an ISO 7816 UART (universal asynchronous receiver-transmitter) for smart card communication. The  device  supports  high-speed  encryption  with  hardware accelerators  for  AES,  RSA,  DSA,  ECDSA,  SHA-1, SHA-224,  SHA-256,  DES,  and  3DES.  A  true  hardware random-number generator is included for key generation and challenge generation.

The  device  uses  the  32-bit,  pipelined,  highly  efficient MAXQ30 microcontroller  core.  It  integrates  128KB  flash memory, 12KB of volatile SRAM, 4KB of battery-backed erasable NV SRAM, and 256B of battery-backed, secure zeroization NV SRAM. An additional 1.5KB of volatile cryptographic memory can also be used as general-purpose data memory. The 256B of battery-backed NV SRAM can be used for key storage and other critical data. The 256B memory can be erased in  less  than  1 F s  using  a  single pulse ('rapid zeroization'), even in battery-backed mode.

The device is powered either from the USB bus or by a separate  3.3V  voltage  supply.  A  battery  connection  is provided for applications that want to maintain secret key data for years without draining the battery from application use. In battery-backed mode, the NV SRAM and security sensors consume less than 240nA (typ). Battery backup is optional; applications can choose to store critical data in the flash memory when the cost of the battery outweighs the benefits of constant monitoring for tamper conditions.

## Applications

Security and Banking

Tokens

Certificate Management

Electronic Signature

Generation

Smart Grid Security

Prepaid Utility

e-Commerce

Secure Access Control

Pay-per-Play

DeepCover is a trademark of Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.

Ordering Information appears at end of data sheet.

Features

- S High-Performance, Low-Power, 32-Bit MAXQ30 RISC Core
- S Operates from USB Power or Single 3.3V Supply
- S Runs from 20MHz (typ) Internal Oscillator
- S Supports External 12/24MHz Crystal Oscillator for Microcontroller and USB Operation
- S On-Chip 2x/4x Clock Multiplier
- S 16-Bit Instruction Word, 32-Bit Internal Data Bus
- S 16 x 32-Bit Accumulators
- S 16 x 32-Bit General-Purpose Working Registers
- S Up to 20 General-Purpose I/O Pins
- S 5V Tolerant I/O
- S Virtually Unlimited Software Stack
- S Optimized for C-Compiler (High-Speed/Density Code)
- S Memory
-  128KB Flash Memory, 512 x 32 Page Size
-  Flash Memory Supports 20k Erase/Write Cycles per Sector
-  256B of Secure NV SRAM
-  4KB Battery-Backed NV SRAM
-  12KB SRAM
-  Secure JTAG/TAP for In-System Programming and On-Chip Debugger Access
- S Security
-  Unique 64-Bit Serial Number
-  Tamper Detection with Rapid Key/Data Destruction
-  Secret Key Destruction on Tamper Events
-  Permanent Loader Lockout Option
-  Proprietary Code Scrambling Technique Using Random Keys
-  Hardware Accelerators for AES, RSA, DSA, ECDSA, DES, 3DES, SHA-1, SHA-224, SHA-256
-  True Hardware Random-Number Generator
-  Temperature and Voltage Sensors to Detect Attacks
-  Two Self-Destruct Input Pins
- S Additional Peripherals
-  Power-Fail Warning
-  Power-On-Reset/Brownout Reset
-  Full-Speed USB Device with Six Endpoint Buffers and Integrated Transceiver
-  ISO 7816 Smart Card UART with FIFO
-  16-Bit Programmable Timers/Counters with Prescaler, Capture/Compare, and PWM
-  SPI Master/Slave Hardware
-  Programmable Watchdog Timer
-  Up to 20 General-Purpose I/O Pins with Eight External Interrupts

For related parts and recommended products to use with this part, refer to: www.maximintegrated.com/MAXQ1050.related

Note: Some revisions of this device may incorporate deviations from published specifications known as errata. Multiple revisions of any device may be simultaneously available through various sales channels. For information about device errata, go to: www.maximintegrated.com/errata .

19-5822; Rev 3; 1/13

## ABRIDGED DATA SHEET

## MAXQ105

## DeepCover Secure Microcontroller with USB and Hardware Cryptography

## Block Diagram

<!-- image -->

## ABRIDGED DATA SHEET

## MAXQ105

## DeepCover Secure Microcontroller with USB and Hardware Cryptography

## Additional Documentation

Designers must have the following documents to fully use all  the  features  of  this  device.  This  data  sheet  contains pin descriptions, feature overviews, and electrical specifications. Errata sheets contain deviations from published specifications.  User  guides  offer  detailed  descriptions of device features and peripherals from a programming perspective. The following documents can be obtained by contacting a technical support specialist.

- This	MAXQ1050	data	sheet,	which	contains	electrical/ timing  specifications,  package  information,  and  pin descriptions.
- The	MAXQ1050	revision-specific	errata	sheet.
- The MAXQ1050 User's Guide , which contains detailed information and programming guidelines for core features and peripherals.

## Development and Technical Support

Maxim  and  third-party  suppliers  provide  a  variety  of highly versatile, affordably priced development tools for this microcontroller, including the following:

- Compilers
- In-circuit	emulators
- Integrated	Development	Environments	(IDEs)
- JTAG-to-serial converters for programming and debugging

A partial list of development tool vendors can be found at www.maximintegrated.com/MAXQ\_tools .

For technical support, go to https://support.maximintegrated.com/micro .

## Ordering Information

| PART          | TEMP RANGE         |   FLASH PROGRAM MEMORY (KB) | DATA MEMORY                                  | PIN-PACKAGE   |
|---------------|--------------------|-----------------------------|----------------------------------------------|---------------|
| MAXQ1050-BNS+ | -40 N C to +85 N C |                         128 | 12KB SRAM 4KB NV SRAM 256B fast wipe NV SRAM | 40 TQFN-EP*   |
| MAXQ1050-DNS+ | -40 N C to +85 N C |                         128 | 12KB SRAM 4KB NV SRAM 256B fast wipe NV SRAM | Bare die      |

## Package Information

For the latest package outline information and land patterns (footprints), go to www.maximintegrated.com/packages . Note that a '+', '#', or '-' in the package code indicates RoHS status only. Package drawings may show a different suffix character, but the drawing pertains to the package regardless of RoHS status.

| PACKAGE TYPE   | PACKAGE CODE   | OUTLINE NO.   | LAND PATTERN NO.   |
|----------------|----------------|---------------|--------------------|
| 40 TQFN-EP     | T4055+1        | 21-0140       | 90-0016            |

Note to readers: This document is an abridged version of the full data sheet. To request the full data sheet, go to www.maximintegrated.com/MAXQ1050 and click on Request Full Data Sheet .